rest-apis/learn/examples/python-demo.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Python Demo"
id: rest_apis-learn-examples-python-demo
categories: Learn Rest
author: Mark O'Neil
---

# Demo using Python

The rest demo script demonstrates authenticating a REST application,
management and use of the authorization token, and creating, updating,
discovering, and deleting supported Learn objects.

### Prerequisites

- You must [register a developer account and application](/rest-apis/learn/getting-started/registry) in the Developer Portal
- You must
  [register your application](/rest-apis/learn/admin/rest-and-learn) in Blackboard Learn
- You must also configure the script as outlined in the README for the project

This webapp allows you to:

- Authenticate
- Create, Read, and Update a Data Source
- Create, Read, and Update a Term
- Create, Read, and Update a Course
- Create, Read, and Update a User
- Create, Read, and Update a Membership
- Delete created objects in reverse order of create - membership, user, course, term, datasource.

All generated output is sent to the terminal console.

**This is not meant to be a Python tutorial. It will not teach you to write code
in Python. It will, however, give a Developer familiar with Python the
knowledge necessary to build a REST-based Web Services integration.**

### Assumptions

This help topic assumes the Developer:

- Is familiar with Python
- Has obtained a copy of the[ source code](https://github.com/blackboard/BBDN-REST-DEMO_Python) and run as noted in the project [README.md](https://github.com/blackboard/BBDN-REST-DEMO_Python/blob/master/README.md) file.
- Has a REST-enabled Blackboard Learn instance.

### Code Walkthrough

To build an integration with the Blackboard REST Web Services, regardless of
the programming language of choice, can really be summed up in two steps:

1. Use the Application Key and Secret to obtain an OAuth 2.0 access token, as described in the [Basic Authentication](/rest-apis/learn/getting-started/basic-authentication) document.
2. Call the appropriate REST endpoint with the appropriate data to perform the appropriate action.

### Authorization and Authentication

The REST Services rely on OAuth 2.0 Bearer Tokens for authentication. A
request is made to the token endpoint with a Basic Authorization header
containing the base64-encoded key:secret string as its key. The token service
returns a JSON object containing the Access Token, the Token Type, and the
number of seconds until the token expires. The token is set to expire after
one hour, and subsequent calls to retrieve the token will return the same
token with an updated expiry time until such time that the token has expired.
There is no refresh token and currently no revoke token method.

The Python code handles authentication and token management in the auth class
in auth.py:

```python
        def __init__(self, URL):
            self.SECRET = "insert_your_application_key_here"
            self.KEY = "insert_your_application_secret_here"
            self.CREDENTIALS = 'client_credentials'
            self.PAYLOAD = {
                'grant_type':'client_credentials'
            }
            self.TOKEN = None
            self.target_url = URL
      ...
       def setToken(self):
            oauth_path = '/learn/api/public/v1/oauth2/token'
            OAUTH_URL = 'https://' + self.target_url + oauth_path
            if self.TOKEN is None:
                session = requests.session()
                session.mount('https://', Tls1Adapter()) # remove for production
            # Authenticate
                r = session.post(OAUTH_URL, data=self.PAYLOAD, auth=(self.KEY, self.SECRET), verify=False)
                print("[auth:setToken()] STATUS CODE: " + str(r.status_code) )
                print("[auth:setToken()] RESPONSE: " + r.text)
                if r.status_code == 200:
                    parsed_json = json.loads(r.text)
                    self.TOKEN = parsed_json['access_token']
    ...
```

The JSON response is parsed to retrieve the Token which is stored and
retrieved for subsequent calls by calling `auth.getToken()`. Note that the
retrieving the stored token invokes a sanity check on token expiration,
requesting a fresh token if nearly expired - see `auth.getToken()` and
`auth.isExpired()`.

### Calling Services

The individual service calls are handled by Python in service specific class
files:

- datasource.py
- term.py
- course.py
- user.py
- membership.py

A sixth file `constants.py` contains a set of constants used by the application.

Each of these classes creates the JSON body when appropriate and then calls
the appropriate HTTP Request, and return the JSON response as a String to be
displayed in the terminal console window.

In the demo restdemo.py, each of the above objects are called using POST to
create, PATCH to update, GET to read, and DELETE to delete the target object.
Note that memberships use PUT to create a membership.

End points are generally defined as `/learn/api/public/v1/<objecttype>/<objectId>`. Object ID can be either the pk1, like `_1_1`, or as the batch_uid. This value should be prepended by externalId:, like `externalId:test101`.

For example, to retrieve a course by the pk1 `_1_1`, you would call **GET
/learn/api/public/v1/courses/\_1_1**. To retrieve by the batch_uid `test101`,
you would call **GET /learn/api/public/v1/courses/externalId:test101.**

Create is sent to Learn as a HTTP POST message with a JSON body that defines
the object. The endpoint should omit the objectId, as this will be generated
on creation.

Read is sent to Learn as a HTTP GET message with an empty body. The endpoint
should include the objectId being retrieved.

Update is sent to Learn as a HTTP PATCH message with a JSON body that defines
the object. The endpoint should include the objectId being updated.

Delete is sent to Learn as a HTTP DELETE message with empty body. The endpoint
should include the objectId being deleted.

The following shows the key components of the Python code for making REST
requests against each of the supported objects. In each case detailed messages
are printed to the terminal screen for you to follow the process.

### Datasources

Datasources are handled in `datasource.py`.

**Variables and Create Payload**

```python
     self.DATASOURCES_PATH = '/learn/api/public/v1/dataSources' #create(POST)/get(GET)
     self.DATASOURCE_PATH = '/learn/api/public/v1/dataSources/externalId:'
     authStr = 'Bearer ' + token
    ...
     self.PAYLOAD = {
         "externalId":DSKEXTERNALID,
         "description":"Data Source used for REST demo"
     }
```

**Create**

```python
    r = session.post("https://" + self.target_url + self.DATASOURCES_PATH, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Read**

```python
    r = session.get("https://" + self.target_url + self.DATASOURCE_PATH+DSKEXTERNALID, headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
    ...
    print("[DataSource:getDataSource()] RESPONSE: " + r.text)
```

**Update**

```python
    r = session.patch("https://" + self.target_url + self.DATASOURCE_PATH+DSKEXTERNALID, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
    ...
    print("[DataSource:updateDataSource()] RESPONSE: " + r.text)
```

**Delete**

```python
    r = session.delete("https://" + self.target_url + self.DATASOURCE_PATH+DSKEXTERNALID, headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

### Terms

Terms are handled in `term.py`. This Class contains the methods for creating,
reading, updating and deleting Term objects.

**Variables and Create Payload**

```python
    self.terms_Path = '/learn/api/public/v1/terms' #create(POST)/get(GET)
    self.term_Path = '/learn/api/public/v1/terms/externalId:'
    self.termExternalId = TERMEXTERNALID #'BBDN-PYTHON-REST-DEMO-TERM'
    authStr = 'Bearer ' + token
    self.PAYLOAD = {
         "externalId":self.termExternalId,
         "dataSourceId": dsk, #self.dskExternalId, Supported soon.
         "name":"REST Demo Term",
         "description": "Term used for REST demo",
         "availability": {
              "duration":"Continuous"
          }
    }
```

**Create**

```python
    r = session.post("https://" + self.target_url + self.terms_Path, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Read**

```python
    r = session.get("https://" + self.target_url + self.term_Path+self.termExternalId, headers={'Authorization':authStr},  verify=False)
    ...
    print("[Term:updateTerm()] RESPONSE: " + r.text)
    Update
    self.PAYLOAD = {
           "externalId":self.termExternalId,
           "dataSourceId": dsk, #self.dskExternalId, #Supported soon
           "name":"REST Python Demo Term",
           "description": "Term used for REST Python demo",
           "availability": {
                  "duration":"continuous"
           }
    }
    ...
    r = session.patch("https://" + self.target_url + self.term_Path+self.termExternalId, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Delete**

```python
    r = session.delete("https://" + self.target_url + self.term_Path+self.termExternalId, headers={'Authorization':authStr}, verify=False)
```

### Courses

Courses are handled in `course.py`. This class contains the methods for
creating, reading, updating and deleting course objects .

**Variables and Create Payload**

```python
    self.courses_Path = '/learn/api/public/v1/courses' #create(POST)/get(GET)
    self.course_Path = '/learn/api/public/v1/courses/externalId:'
    self.termId = None
    self.PAYLOAD = {
           "externalId":constants.COURSEEXTERNALID,
           "dataSourceId": dsk, #self.dskExternalId, Supported soon.
           "courseId":constants.COURSEEXTERNALID,
           "name":"Course used for REST demo",
           "description":"Course used for REST demo",
           "allowGuests":"true",
           "readOnly": "false",
           "availability": {
                  "duration":"continuous"
           }
    }
```

**Create**

```python
    r = session.post("https://" + self.target_url + self.courses_Path, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Read**

```python
    r = session.get("https://" + self.target_url + self.course_Path+constants.COURSEEXTERNALID, headers={'Authorization':authStr},  verify=False)
    ...
    print("[Course:getCourse()] RESPONSE: " + r.text)
```

**Update**

```python
    self.PAYLOAD = {
           "externalId":constants.COURSEEXTERNALID,
           "dataSourceId": dsk, #self.dskExternalId, Supported soon.
           "courseId":constants.COURSEEXTERNALID,
           "name":"Course used for REST Python demo",
           "description":"Course used for REST Python demo",
           "allowGuests":"true",
           "readOnly": "false",
           "availability": {
                  "available":"Yes",
                  "duration":"continuous"
           }
    }
    r = session.patch("https://" + self.target_url + self.course_Path+constants.COURSEEXTERNALID, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Delete**

```python
    r = session.delete("https://" + self.target_url + self.course_Path+constants.COURSEEXTERNALID, headers={'Authorization':authStr}, verify=False)
```

### Users

Users are handled in `user.py`. This class contains the methods for creating,
reading, updating and deleting user objects .

**Variables and Create Payload**

```python
    self.users_Path = '/learn/api/public/v1/users' #create(POST)/get(GET)
    self.user_Path = '/learn/api/public/v1/users/externalId:'
    self.PAYLOAD = {
           "externalId":USEREXTERNALID,
           "dataSourceId": dsk, #self.dskExternalId, Supported soon.
           "userName":"python_demo",
           "password":"python61",
           "availability": {
                  "available": "Yes"
           },
           "name": {
           "given": "Python",
           "family": "Demo",
           },
           "contact": {
           "email": "no.one@ereh.won",
            }
    }
```

**Create**

```python
    r = session.post("https://" + self.target_url + self.users_Path, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Read**

```python
    r = session.get("https://" + self.target_url + self.user_Path+USEREXTERNALID, headers={'Authorization':authStr},  verify=False)
    ...
    print("[User:getUser()] RESPONSE: " + r.text)
```

**Update**

```python
    self.PAYLOAD = {
                "externalId": USEREXTERNALID,
                "dataSourceId": dsk, #self.dskExternalId, Supported soon.
                "userName":"python_demo",
                "password": "python16",
                "availability": {
                    "available": "Yes"
                },
                "name": {
                    "given": "Python",
                    "family": "BbDN",
                    "middle": "Demo",
                },
                "contact": {
                    "email": "no.one@ereh.won",
                }
            }
    ...
    r = session.patch("https://" + self.target_url + self.user_Path+USEREXTERNALID, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Delete**

```python
    r = session.delete("https://" + self.target_url + self.user_Path+USEREXTERNALID, headers={'Authorization':authStr}, verify=False)
```

### Memberships

Memberships (enrollment/staff) are handled in `membership.py`. This class
contains the methods for creating, reading, updating and deleting membership
objects .

**Variables and Create Payload**

```python
    self.PAYLOAD = {
           "dataSourceId":dsk, #self.dskExternalId, supported soon.
           "availability": {
                  "available":"Yes"
           },
           "courseRoleId":"Instructor"
    }
```

**Create**

```python
    r = session.put("https://" + self.target_url + membership_Path, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Read**

```python
    r = session.get("https://" + self.target_url + memberships_Path, headers={'Authorization':authStr}, verify=False)
    ...
    print("[Membership:getMemberships()] RESPONSE: " + r.text)
```

**Update**

```python
    self.PAYLOAD = {
           "dataSourceId":dsk,
           "availability": {
                  "available":"No"
           },
           "courseRoleId":"Student"
    }
    ...
    r = session.patch("https://" + self.target_url + membership_Path, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Delete**

```python
    r = session.delete("https://" + self.target_url + membership_Path, headers={'Authorization':authStr}, verify=False)
```

### Conclusion

All of the code snippets included in this document are included in a sample
REST Demo Python command line application available on
[GitHub](https://github.com/blackboard/BBDN-REST-DEMO_Python).
There is a README.html included that talks more specifically running the code.
Feel free to review the code and run it against a test or development Learn
instance to see how it works.

Commit message:

We are now Anthology (#128)
* change Bb text, remove deprecated docs, etc.

* fix moneil references.

* ATD link, others

* More rebranding tweaking...

* fixing student docs pages

* Update ANTHOLOGY-Logo-RGB.png

* rebranding v2 tweaks.

* rebranding tweaks

* rebranding v2 tweaks

* rebranding - added student menu and pages

* moved deprecated to archives and added PDF support.

Moved most deprecated docs to archives, added md2pdf script and generated pdfs, updated selected .md files for pdf generation and downloads.

* final

* Last commit for a Tuesday.

Fixed broken PDF links and removed liquid text from pdf - see md2pdf.sh for notes.

* Fixed liquid PDF download block so it does not render in PDFs.

* Read input for auto overwrites of PDFs.

* Rebranding v1 (#124)

* moved deprecated to archives and added PDF support.

Moved most deprecated docs to archives, added md2pdf script and generated pdfs, updated selected .md files for pdf generation and downloads.

* final

* Last commit for a Tuesday.

Fixed broken PDF links and removed liquid text from pdf - see md2pdf.sh for notes.

* Fixed liquid PDF download block so it does not render in PDFs.

* Read input for auto overwrites of PDFs.

* Fixed logic error behind the default action for auto overwrite prompt.

* Updated the css abit

* Rebranding v1 (#126)

* fix cloud-registry.md

* add cloud registry pdf

* improved md2pdf conversion workflow - does not display unconverted mds in converted PDF results list.

* Update main.css

* fix converted list

* Rebranding v1 (#127)

* fix cloud-registry.md

* add cloud registry pdf

* improved md2pdf conversion workflow - does not display unconverted mds in converted PDF results list.

* Update main.css

* fix converted list

* support md2pdf conversion

* update menu

Co-authored-by: Davey Herrera <davey.herrera@blackboard.com>

rest-apis/learn/examples/python-demo.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Python Demo"
id: rest_apis-learn-examples-python-demo
categories: Learn Rest
author: Mark O'Neil
doctitle: "Demo using Python"
pdf: true
---


# Demo using Python

The rest demo script demonstrates authenticating a REST application,
management and use of the authorization token, and creating, updating,
discovering, and deleting supported Learn objects.

### Prerequisites

- You must [register a developer account and application](/rest-apis/learn/getting-started/registry) in the Developer Portal
- You must
  [register your application](/rest-apis/learn/admin/rest-and-learn) in Learn
- You must also configure the script as outlined in the README for the project

This webapp allows you to:

- Authenticate
- Create, Read, and Update a Data Source
- Create, Read, and Update a Term
- Create, Read, and Update a Course
- Create, Read, and Update a User
- Create, Read, and Update a Membership
- Delete created objects in reverse order of create - membership, user, course, term, datasource.

All generated output is sent to the terminal console.

**This is not meant to be a Python tutorial. It will not teach you to write code
in Python. It will, however, give a Developer familiar with Python the
knowledge necessary to build a REST-based Web Services integration.**

### Assumptions

This help topic assumes the Developer:

- Is familiar with Python
- Has obtained a copy of the[ source code](https://github.com/blackboard/BBDN-REST-DEMO_Python) and run as noted in the project [README.md](https://github.com/blackboard/BBDN-REST-DEMO_Python/blob/master/README.md) file.
- Has a REST-enabled Learn instance.

### Code Walkthrough

To build an integration with the Learn REST Web Services, regardless of
the programming language of choice, can really be summed up in two steps:

1. Use the Application Key and Secret to obtain an OAuth 2.0 access token, as described in the [Basic Authentication](/rest-apis/learn/getting-started/basic-authentication) document.
2. Call the appropriate REST endpoint with the appropriate data to perform the appropriate action.

### Authorization and Authentication

The REST Services rely on OAuth 2.0 Bearer Tokens for authentication. A
request is made to the token endpoint with a Basic Authorization header
containing the base64-encoded key:secret string as its key. The token service
returns a JSON object containing the Access Token, the Token Type, and the
number of seconds until the token expires. The token is set to expire after
one hour, and subsequent calls to retrieve the token will return the same
token with an updated expiry time until such time that the token has expired.
There is no refresh token and currently no revoke token method.

The Python code handles authentication and token management in the auth class
in auth.py:

```python
        def __init__(self, URL):
            self.SECRET = "insert_your_application_key_here"
            self.KEY = "insert_your_application_secret_here"
            self.CREDENTIALS = 'client_credentials'
            self.PAYLOAD = {
                'grant_type':'client_credentials'
            }
            self.TOKEN = None
            self.target_url = URL
      ...
       def setToken(self):
            oauth_path = '/learn/api/public/v1/oauth2/token'
            OAUTH_URL = 'https://' + self.target_url + oauth_path
            if self.TOKEN is None:
                session = requests.session()
                session.mount('https://', Tls1Adapter()) # remove for production
            # Authenticate
                r = session.post(OAUTH_URL, data=self.PAYLOAD, auth=(self.KEY, self.SECRET), verify=False)
                print("[auth:setToken()] STATUS CODE: " + str(r.status_code) )
                print("[auth:setToken()] RESPONSE: " + r.text)
                if r.status_code == 200:
                    parsed_json = json.loads(r.text)
                    self.TOKEN = parsed_json['access_token']
    ...
```

The JSON response is parsed to retrieve the Token which is stored and
retrieved for subsequent calls by calling `auth.getToken()`. Note that the
retrieving the stored token invokes a sanity check on token expiration,
requesting a fresh token if nearly expired - see `auth.getToken()` and
`auth.isExpired()`.

### Calling Services

The individual service calls are handled by Python in service specific class
files:

- datasource.py
- term.py
- course.py
- user.py
- membership.py

A sixth file `constants.py` contains a set of constants used by the application.

Each of these classes creates the JSON body when appropriate and then calls
the appropriate HTTP Request, and return the JSON response as a String to be
displayed in the terminal console window.

In the demo restdemo.py, each of the above objects are called using POST to
create, PATCH to update, GET to read, and DELETE to delete the target object.
Note that memberships use PUT to create a membership.

End points are generally defined as `/learn/api/public/v1/<objecttype>/<objectId>`. Object ID can be either the pk1, like `_1_1`, or as the batch_uid. This value should be prepended by externalId:, like `externalId:test101`.

For example, to retrieve a course by the pk1 `_1_1`, you would call **GET
/learn/api/public/v1/courses/\_1_1**. To retrieve by the batch_uid `test101`,
you would call **GET /learn/api/public/v1/courses/externalId:test101.**

Create is sent to Learn as a HTTP POST message with a JSON body that defines
the object. The endpoint should omit the objectId, as this will be generated
on creation.

Read is sent to Learn as a HTTP GET message with an empty body. The endpoint
should include the objectId being retrieved.

Update is sent to Learn as a HTTP PATCH message with a JSON body that defines
the object. The endpoint should include the objectId being updated.

Delete is sent to Learn as a HTTP DELETE message with empty body. The endpoint
should include the objectId being deleted.

The following shows the key components of the Python code for making REST
requests against each of the supported objects. In each case detailed messages
are printed to the terminal screen for you to follow the process.

### Datasources

Datasources are handled in `datasource.py`.

**Variables and Create Payload**

```python
     self.DATASOURCES_PATH = '/learn/api/public/v1/dataSources' #create(POST)/get(GET)
     self.DATASOURCE_PATH = '/learn/api/public/v1/dataSources/externalId:'
     authStr = 'Bearer ' + token
    ...
     self.PAYLOAD = {
         "externalId":DSKEXTERNALID,
         "description":"Data Source used for REST demo"
     }
```

**Create**

```python
    r = session.post("https://" + self.target_url + self.DATASOURCES_PATH, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Read**

```python
    r = session.get("https://" + self.target_url + self.DATASOURCE_PATH+DSKEXTERNALID, headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
    ...
    print("[DataSource:getDataSource()] RESPONSE: " + r.text)
```

**Update**

```python
    r = session.patch("https://" + self.target_url + self.DATASOURCE_PATH+DSKEXTERNALID, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
    ...
    print("[DataSource:updateDataSource()] RESPONSE: " + r.text)
```

**Delete**

```python
    r = session.delete("https://" + self.target_url + self.DATASOURCE_PATH+DSKEXTERNALID, headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

### Terms

Terms are handled in `term.py`. This Class contains the methods for creating,
reading, updating and deleting Term objects.

**Variables and Create Payload**

```python
    self.terms_Path = '/learn/api/public/v1/terms' #create(POST)/get(GET)
    self.term_Path = '/learn/api/public/v1/terms/externalId:'
    self.termExternalId = TERMEXTERNALID #'BBDN-PYTHON-REST-DEMO-TERM'
    authStr = 'Bearer ' + token
    self.PAYLOAD = {
         "externalId":self.termExternalId,
         "dataSourceId": dsk, #self.dskExternalId, Supported soon.
         "name":"REST Demo Term",
         "description": "Term used for REST demo",
         "availability": {
              "duration":"Continuous"
          }
    }
```

**Create**

```python
    r = session.post("https://" + self.target_url + self.terms_Path, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Read**

```python
    r = session.get("https://" + self.target_url + self.term_Path+self.termExternalId, headers={'Authorization':authStr},  verify=False)
    ...
    print("[Term:updateTerm()] RESPONSE: " + r.text)
    Update
    self.PAYLOAD = {
           "externalId":self.termExternalId,
{% assign sluggedName = page.name | replace: '.md' %}
# Python Demo <a href="/assets/pdfs{{page.dir}}{{sluggedName}}.pdf" target="_blank"><img class="download-button" src="/assets/img/download.png" height="30px"></a> 
           "description": "Term used for REST Python demo",
           "availability": {
                  "duration":"continuous"
           }
    }
    ...
    r = session.patch("https://" + self.target_url + self.term_Path+self.termExternalId, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Delete**

```python
    r = session.delete("https://" + self.target_url + self.term_Path+self.termExternalId, headers={'Authorization':authStr}, verify=False)
```

### Courses

Courses are handled in `course.py`. This class contains the methods for
creating, reading, updating and deleting course objects .

**Variables and Create Payload**

```python
    self.courses_Path = '/learn/api/public/v1/courses' #create(POST)/get(GET)
    self.course_Path = '/learn/api/public/v1/courses/externalId:'
    self.termId = None
    self.PAYLOAD = {
           "externalId":constants.COURSEEXTERNALID,
           "dataSourceId": dsk, #self.dskExternalId, Supported soon.
           "courseId":constants.COURSEEXTERNALID,
           "name":"Course used for REST demo",
           "description":"Course used for REST demo",
           "allowGuests":"true",
           "readOnly": "false",
           "availability": {
                  "duration":"continuous"
           }
    }
```

**Create**

```python
    r = session.post("https://" + self.target_url + self.courses_Path, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Read**

```python
    r = session.get("https://" + self.target_url + self.course_Path+constants.COURSEEXTERNALID, headers={'Authorization':authStr},  verify=False)
    ...
    print("[Course:getCourse()] RESPONSE: " + r.text)
```

**Update**

```python
    self.PAYLOAD = {
           "externalId":constants.COURSEEXTERNALID,
           "dataSourceId": dsk, #self.dskExternalId, Supported soon.
           "courseId":constants.COURSEEXTERNALID,
           "name":"Course used for REST Python demo",
           "description":"Course used for REST Python demo",
           "allowGuests":"true",
           "readOnly": "false",
           "availability": {
                  "available":"Yes",
                  "duration":"continuous"
           }
    }
    r = session.patch("https://" + self.target_url + self.course_Path+constants.COURSEEXTERNALID, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Delete**

```python
    r = session.delete("https://" + self.target_url + self.course_Path+constants.COURSEEXTERNALID, headers={'Authorization':authStr}, verify=False)
```

### Users

Users are handled in `user.py`. This class contains the methods for creating,
reading, updating and deleting user objects .

**Variables and Create Payload**

```python
    self.users_Path = '/learn/api/public/v1/users' #create(POST)/get(GET)
    self.user_Path = '/learn/api/public/v1/users/externalId:'
    self.PAYLOAD = {
           "externalId":USEREXTERNALID,
           "dataSourceId": dsk, #self.dskExternalId, Supported soon.
           "userName":"python_demo",
           "password":"python61",
           "availability": {
                  "available": "Yes"
           },
           "name": {
           "given": "Python",
           "family": "Demo",
           },
           "contact": {
           "email": "no.one@ereh.won",
            }
    }
```

**Create**

```python
    r = session.post("https://" + self.target_url + self.users_Path, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Read**

```python
    r = session.get("https://" + self.target_url + self.user_Path+USEREXTERNALID, headers={'Authorization':authStr},  verify=False)
    ...
    print("[User:getUser()] RESPONSE: " + r.text)
```

**Update**

```python
    self.PAYLOAD = {
                "externalId": USEREXTERNALID,
                "dataSourceId": dsk, #self.dskExternalId, Supported soon.
                "userName":"python_demo",
                "password": "python16",
                "availability": {
                    "available": "Yes"
                },
                "name": {
                    "given": "Python",
                    "family": "BbDN",
                    "middle": "Demo",
                },
                "contact": {
                    "email": "no.one@ereh.won",
                }
            }
    ...
    r = session.patch("https://" + self.target_url + self.user_Path+USEREXTERNALID, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Delete**

```python
    r = session.delete("https://" + self.target_url + self.user_Path+USEREXTERNALID, headers={'Authorization':authStr}, verify=False)
```

### Memberships

Memberships (enrollment/staff) are handled in `membership.py`. This class
contains the methods for creating, reading, updating and deleting membership
objects .

**Variables and Create Payload**

```python
    self.PAYLOAD = {
           "dataSourceId":dsk, #self.dskExternalId, supported soon.
           "availability": {
                  "available":"Yes"
           },
           "courseRoleId":"Instructor"
    }
```

**Create**

```python
    r = session.put("https://" + self.target_url + membership_Path, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Read**

```python
    r = session.get("https://" + self.target_url + memberships_Path, headers={'Authorization':authStr}, verify=False)
    ...
    print("[Membership:getMemberships()] RESPONSE: " + r.text)
```

**Update**

```python
    self.PAYLOAD = {
           "dataSourceId":dsk,
           "availability": {
                  "available":"No"
           },
           "courseRoleId":"Student"
    }
    ...
    r = session.patch("https://" + self.target_url + membership_Path, data=json.dumps(self.PAYLOAD), headers={'Authorization':authStr, 'Content-Type':'application/json'}, verify=False)
```

**Delete**

```python
    r = session.delete("https://" + self.target_url + membership_Path, headers={'Authorization':authStr}, verify=False)
```

### Conclusion

All of the code snippets included in this document are included in a sample
REST Demo Python command line application available on
[GitHub](https://github.com/blackboard/BBDN-REST-DEMO_Python).
There is a README.html included that talks more specifically running the code.
Feel free to review the code and run it against a test or development Learn
instance to see how it works.
