rest-apis/learn/examples/ruby-demo.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Ruby Demo"
id: rest_apis-learn-examples-ruby_demo
categories: Learn Rest
author: Scott Hurrey
---

# Demo using Ruby

The rest demo script demonstrates authenticating a REST application,
management and use of the authorization token, and creating, updating,
discovering, and deleting supported Learn objects.

### Prerequisites

- You must [register a developer account and application](/rest-apis/learn/getting-started/registry) in the Developer Portal
- You must
  [register your application](/rest-apis/learn/admin/rest-and-learn) in Blackboard Learn
- You must also configure the script as outlined in the README for the project

This Ruby command line Application allows you to:

- Authenticate
- Create, Read, and Update a Data Source
- Create, Read, and Update a Term
- Create, Read, and Update a Course
- Create, Read, and Update a User
- Create, Read, and Update a Membership
- Delete created objects in reverse order of create - membership, user, course, term, datasource.

All generated output is sent to the terminal.

**This is not meant to be a Ruby tutorial. It will not teach you to write code
in Ruby. It will, however, give a Developer familiar with Ruby the knowledge
necessary to build a Web Services integration.**

### Assumptions

This help topic assumes the Developer:

- is familiar with Ruby
- has installed Ruby and the Ruby rest-client gem.
- has obtained a copy of the [source code](https://github.com/blackboard/BBDN-REST-Demo-Ruby) and built it in conjunction with the project [README.md](https://github.com/blackboard/BBDN-REST-Demo-Ruby/blob/master/README.md) file.
- has a REST-enabled Blackboard Learn instance.

### Code Walkthrough

To build an integration with the Blackboard REST Web Services, regardless of
the programming language of choice, can really be summed up in two steps:

1. Use the Application Key and Secret to obtain an OAuth 2.0 access token, as described in the [Basic Authentication](/rest-apis/learn/getting-started/basic-authentication) document.
2. Call the appropriate REST endpoint with the appropriate data to perform the appropriate action.

### Authorization and Authentication

The REST Services rely on OAuth 2.0 Bearer Tokens for authentication. A
request is made to the token endpoint with a Basic Authorization header
containing the base64-encoded key:secret string as its key. The token service
returns a JSON object containing the Access Token, the Token Type, and the
number of seconds until the token expires. The token is set to expire after
one hour, and subsequent calls to retrieve the token will return the same
token with an updated expiry time until such time that the token has expired.
There is no refresh token and currently no revoke token method.

The Ruby code handles this with the following code:

```ruby

    bb_rest = RestClient::Resource.new $AUTH_PATH, $KEY, $SECRET
    bb_rest.post('grant_type=client_credentials', :accept => :json){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                   when 200
                        p "It worked !"
                        token = JSON.parse(response)
                        $access_token = token['access_token']
                        $auth = "Bearer " + $access_token
                        p 'Access_Token: ' + $access_token
                   else
                        p response.to_s
                        response.return!(request, result, &block)
                   end
      }
```

The JSON response is serialized into the Token object, and you may then
retrieve those values from that object.

### Calling Services

The individual service calls are handled in succession in the restdemo.rb
file. Each operation and object combination creates the JSON body by
instantiating the appropriate JSON object in the form of a String (required if
you need to control the content-type, which you do) when necessary, and then
generating the appropriate HTTP Request, shipping it to Learn, and serializing
the JSON response back into the appropriate object.

End points are generally defined as `/learn/api/public/v1/<objecttype>/<objectId>`. Object ID can be either the pk1, like `_1_1`, or as thebatchuid. This value should be prepended by externalId:, like `externalId:test101`.

For example, to retrieve a course by the pk1 `_1_1`, you would call **GET
/learn/api/public/v1/courses/\_1_1**. To retrieve by the batchuid `test101`, you
would call **GET /learn/api/public/v1/courses/externalId:test101.**

Create is sent to Learn as a HTTP POST message with a JSON body that defines
the object. The endpoint should omit the objectId, as this will be generated
on creation.

Read is sent to Learn as a HTTP GET message with an empty body. The endpoint
should include the objectId being retrieved.

Update is sent to Learn as a HTTP PATCH message with a JSON body that defines
the object. The endpoint should include the objectId being updated.

Delete is sent to Learn as a HTTP DELETE message with empty body. The endpoint
should include the objectId being deleted.

### Datasources

**Create**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\":\"BBDN-DSK-RUBY\", \"description\": \"Demo Data Source used for REST Ruby Demo\" }"
    RestClient.post($DSK_PATH, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
           case response.code
                  when 201
                    p "It worked !"
                    datasource = JSON.parse(response)
                    $dsk_id = datasource['id']
                    p 'Create Datasource: dsk_id=' + $dsk_id
             else
                    p response.to_s
                    response.return!(request, result, &block)
             end
    }
```

**Read**

```ruby
    RestClient.get($DSK_PATH + $dsk_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
               case response.code
                 when 200
                   p "Got Datasource !" + response.to_s
                 else
                   p response.to_s
                   response.return!(request, result, &block)
                 end
               }
```

**Update**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\":\"BBDN-DSK-RUBY\", \"description\": \"Demo Data Source used for REST Ruby Demo - Updated\" }"
     
        RestClient.patch($DSK_PATH + $dsk_id, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
        case response.code
          when 200
            p 'Updated Datasource: ' + response.to_s
          else
            p response.to_s
            response.return!(request, result, &block)
          end
        }
```

**Delete**

```ruby
    RestClient.delete($DSK_PATH + $dsk_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                when 204
                  p "Datasource Deleted !"
                else
                  p response.to_s
                  response.return!(request, result, &block)
                end
              }
```

### Terms

**Create**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\":\"BBDN-TERM-RUBY\", \"dataSourceId\":\"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"name\" : \"REST Demo Term - Ruby\", \"description\": \"Term Used For REST Demo - Ruby\", \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
    RestClient.post($TERM_PATH, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
         case response.code
               when 201
                      p "It worked !"
                      term = JSON.parse(response)
                      $term_id = term['id']
                      p 'Create Term: term_id=' + $term_id
               else
                      p response.to_s
                      response.return!(request, result, &block)
               end
    }
```

**Read**

```ruby
    RestClient.get($TERM_PATH + $term_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                when 200
                  p "Got Term !" + response.to_s
                else
                  p response.to_s
                  response.return!(request, result, &block)
                end
              }
```

**Update**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\":\"BBDN-TERM-RUBY\", \"dataSourceId\":\"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"name\" : \"REST Demo Term - Ruby\", \"description\": \"Updated Term Used For REST Demo - Ruby\", \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
        RestClient.patch($TERM_PATH + $term_id, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
        case response.code
          when 200
            p 'Updated Term: ' + response.to_s
          else
            p response.to_s
            response.return!(request, result, &block)
          end
        }
```

**Delete**

```ruby
    RestClient.delete($TERM_PATH + $term_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                when 204
                  p "Term Deleted !"
                else
                  p response.to_s
                  response.return!(request, result, &block)
                end
              }
```

### Course

**Create**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\" : \"BBDN-Java-Ruby-Demo\", \"courseId\" : \"BBDN-Java-Ruby-Demo\", \"name\" : \"Course Used For REST Demo - Ruby\", \"description\" : \"Course Used For REST Demo - Ruby\", \"allowGuests\" : \"false\", \"readOnly\" : \"false\", \"termId\" : \"" + $term_id + "\", \"dataSourceId\" : \"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
        RestClient.post($COURSE_PATH, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
        case response.code
          when 201
            p "It worked !"
            course = JSON.parse(response)
            $course_id = course['id']
            p 'Create Course: course_id=' + $course_id
          else
            p response.to_s
            response.return!(request, result, &block)
          end
        }
```

**Read**

```ruby
    RestClient.get($COURSE_PATH + $course_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                when 200
                  p "Got Course !" + response.to_s
                else
                  p response.to_s
                  response.return!(request, result, &block)
                end
              }
```

**Update**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\" : \"BBDN-Java-Ruby-Demo\", \"courseId\" : \"BBDN-Java-Ruby-Demo\", \"name\" : \"Course Used For REST Demo - Ruby\", \"description\" : \"Updated Course Used For REST Demo - Ruby\", \"allowGuests\" : \"false\", \"readOnly\" : \"false\", \"termId\" : \"" + $term_id + "\", \"dataSourceId\" : \"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
        RestClient.patch($COURSE_PATH + $course_id, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
        case response.code
          when 200
          p 'Updated Course: ' + response.to_s
          else
            p response.to_s
            response.return!(request, result, &block)
          end
        }
```

**Delete**

```ruby
    RestClient.delete($COURSE_PATH + $course_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                when 204
                  p "Course Deleted !"
                else
                  p response.to_s
                  response.return!(request, result, &block)
                end
              }
```

### Users

**Create**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\" : \"bbdnrestdemorubyuser\", \"userName\" : \"restrubyuser\", \"password\" : \"Bl@ckb0ard!\", \"studentId\" : \"restrubyuser\", \"dataSourceId\" : \"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"name\" : { \"given\" : \"Ruby\", \"family\" : \"Rest Demo\" }, \"contact\" : { \"email\" : \"developers@blackboard.com\" }, \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
     
          RestClient.post($USER_PATH, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
          case response.code
            when 201
              p "It worked !"
              user = JSON.parse(response)
              $user_id = user['id']
              p 'Create User: user_id=' + $user_id
            else
              p response.to_s
              response.return!(request, result, &block)
            end
          }
```

**Read**

```ruby
    RestClient.get($USER_PATH + $user_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
                case response.code
                  when 200
                    p "Got User !" + response.to_s
                  else
                    p response.to_s
                    response.return!(request, result, &block)
                  end
                }
```

**Update**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\" : \"bbdnrestdemorubyuser\", \"userName\" : \"restrubyuser\", \"password\" : \"Bl@ckb0ard!\", \"studentId\" : \"restrubyuser\", \"dataSourceId\" : \"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"name\" : { \"given\" : \"Ruby\", \"family\" : \"Rest Demo\", \"middle\" : \"updated\" }, \"contact\" : { \"email\" : \"developers@blackboard.com\" }, \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
     
          RestClient.patch($USER_PATH + $user_id, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
          case response.code
            when 200
            p 'Updated User: ' + response.to_s
            else
              p response.to_s
              response.return!(request, result, &block)
            end
          }
```

**Delete**

```ruby
    RestClient.delete($USER_PATH + $user_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                when 204
                  p "User Deleted !"
                else
                  p response.to_s
                  response.return!(request, result, &block)
                end
              }
```

### Memberships

**Create**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"courseRoleId\" : \"Student\", \"dataSourceId\" : \"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
     
          RestClient.put($COURSE_PATH + $course_id + '/users/' + $user_id, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
          case response.code
            when 201
              p "It worked !"
              membership = JSON.parse(response)
              $created = membership['created']
              p 'Create Membership: ' + $created
            else
              p response.to_s
              response.return!(request, result, &block)
            end
          }
```

**Read**

```ruby
    RestClient.get($COURSE_PATH + $course_id + '/users/' + $user_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                when 200
                  p "Got Membership !" + response.to_s
                else
                  p response.to_s
                  response.return!(request, result, &block)
                end
              }
```

**Update**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"userId\" : \"" + $user_id + "\", \"courseId\" : \"" + $course_id + "\", \"courseRoleId\" : \"Instructor\", \"dataSourceId\" : \"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
     
          RestClient.patch($COURSE_PATH + $course_id + '/users/' + $user_id, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
          case response.code
            when 200
            p 'Updated Membership: ' + response.to_s
            else
              p response.to_s
              response.return!(request, result, &block)
            end
          }
```

**Delete**

```ruby
    RestClient.delete($COURSE_PATH + $course_id + '/users/' + $user_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
            case response.code
              when 204
                p "Membership Deleted !"
              else
                p response.to_s
                response.return!(request, result, &block)
              end
            }
```

### Conclusion

All of the code snippets included in this document at included in a sample
REST Demo Ruby application available on
[GitHub](https://github.com/blackboard/BBDN-REST-Demo-Ruby).
There is a README.html included that talks more specifically about building and
running the code. Feel free to review the code and run it against a test or
development Learn instance to see how it works.

Commit message:

We are now Anthology (#128)
* change Bb text, remove deprecated docs, etc.

* fix moneil references.

* ATD link, others

* More rebranding tweaking...

* fixing student docs pages

* Update ANTHOLOGY-Logo-RGB.png

* rebranding v2 tweaks.

* rebranding tweaks

* rebranding v2 tweaks

* rebranding - added student menu and pages

* moved deprecated to archives and added PDF support.

Moved most deprecated docs to archives, added md2pdf script and generated pdfs, updated selected .md files for pdf generation and downloads.

* final

* Last commit for a Tuesday.

Fixed broken PDF links and removed liquid text from pdf - see md2pdf.sh for notes.

* Fixed liquid PDF download block so it does not render in PDFs.

* Read input for auto overwrites of PDFs.

* Rebranding v1 (#124)

* moved deprecated to archives and added PDF support.

Moved most deprecated docs to archives, added md2pdf script and generated pdfs, updated selected .md files for pdf generation and downloads.

* final

* Last commit for a Tuesday.

Fixed broken PDF links and removed liquid text from pdf - see md2pdf.sh for notes.

* Fixed liquid PDF download block so it does not render in PDFs.

* Read input for auto overwrites of PDFs.

* Fixed logic error behind the default action for auto overwrite prompt.

* Updated the css abit

* Rebranding v1 (#126)

* fix cloud-registry.md

* add cloud registry pdf

* improved md2pdf conversion workflow - does not display unconverted mds in converted PDF results list.

* Update main.css

* fix converted list

* Rebranding v1 (#127)

* fix cloud-registry.md

* add cloud registry pdf

* improved md2pdf conversion workflow - does not display unconverted mds in converted PDF results list.

* Update main.css

* fix converted list

* support md2pdf conversion

* update menu

Co-authored-by: Davey Herrera <davey.herrera@blackboard.com>

rest-apis/learn/examples/ruby-demo.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Ruby Demo"
id: rest_apis-learn-examples-ruby_demo
categories: Learn Rest
author: Scott Hurrey
doctitle: "Demo using Ruby
"
pdf: true
---


# Demo using Ruby

The rest demo script demonstrates authenticating a REST application,
management and use of the authorization token, and creating, updating,
discovering, and deleting supported Learn objects.

### Prerequisites

- You must [register a developer account and application](/rest-apis/learn/getting-started/registry) in the Developer Portal
- You must
  [register your application](/rest-apis/learn/admin/rest-and-learn) in Learn
- You must also configure the script as outlined in the README for the project

This Ruby command line Application allows you to:

- Authenticate
- Create, Read, and Update a Data Source
- Create, Read, and Update a Term
- Create, Read, and Update a Course
- Create, Read, and Update a User
- Create, Read, and Update a Membership
- Delete created objects in reverse order of create - membership, user, course, term, datasource.

All generated output is sent to the terminal.

**This is not meant to be a Ruby tutorial. It will not teach you to write code
in Ruby. It will, however, give a Developer familiar with Ruby the knowledge
necessary to build a Web Services integration.**

### Assumptions

This help topic assumes the Developer:

- is familiar with Ruby
- has installed Ruby and the Ruby rest-client gem.
- has obtained a copy of the [source code](https://github.com/blackboard/BBDN-REST-Demo-Ruby) and built it in conjunction with the project [README.md](https://github.com/blackboard/BBDN-REST-Demo-Ruby/blob/master/README.md) file.
- has a REST-enabled Learn instance.

### Code Walkthrough

To build an integration with the Learn REST Web Services, regardless of
the programming language of choice, can really be summed up in two steps:

1. Use the Application Key and Secret to obtain an OAuth 2.0 access token, as described in the [Basic Authentication](/rest-apis/learn/getting-started/basic-authentication) document.
2. Call the appropriate REST endpoint with the appropriate data to perform the appropriate action.

### Authorization and Authentication

The REST Services rely on OAuth 2.0 Bearer Tokens for authentication. A
request is made to the token endpoint with a Basic Authorization header
containing the base64-encoded key:secret string as its key. The token service
returns a JSON object containing the Access Token, the Token Type, and the
number of seconds until the token expires. The token is set to expire after
one hour, and subsequent calls to retrieve the token will return the same
token with an updated expiry time until such time that the token has expired.
There is no refresh token and currently no revoke token method.

The Ruby code handles this with the following code:

```ruby

    bb_rest = RestClient::Resource.new $AUTH_PATH, $KEY, $SECRET
    bb_rest.post('grant_type=client_credentials', :accept => :json){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                   when 200
                        p "It worked !"
                        token = JSON.parse(response)
                        $access_token = token['access_token']
                        $auth = "Bearer " + $access_token
                        p 'Access_Token: ' + $access_token
                   else
                        p response.to_s
                        response.return!(request, result, &block)
                   end
      }
```

The JSON response is serialized into the Token object, and you may then
retrieve those values from that object.

### Calling Services

The individual service calls are handled in succession in the restdemo.rb
file. Each operation and object combination creates the JSON body by
instantiating the appropriate JSON object in the form of a String (required if
you need to control the content-type, which you do) when necessary, and then
generating the appropriate HTTP Request, shipping it to Learn, and serializing
the JSON response back into the appropriate object.

End points are generally defined as `/learn/api/public/v1/<objecttype>/<objectId>`. Object ID can be either the pk1, like `_1_1`, or as thebatchuid. This value should be prepended by externalId:, like `externalId:test101`.

For example, to retrieve a course by the pk1 `_1_1`, you would call **GET
/learn/api/public/v1/courses/\_1_1**. To retrieve by the batchuid `test101`, you
would call **GET /learn/api/public/v1/courses/externalId:test101.**

Create is sent to Learn as a HTTP POST message with a JSON body that defines
the object. The endpoint should omit the objectId, as this will be generated
on creation.

Read is sent to Learn as a HTTP GET message with an empty body. The endpoint
should include the objectId being retrieved.

Update is sent to Learn as a HTTP PATCH message with a JSON body that defines
the object. The endpoint should include the objectId being updated.

Delete is sent to Learn as a HTTP DELETE message with empty body. The endpoint
should include the objectId being deleted.

### Datasources

**Create**

{% assign sluggedName = page.name | replace: '.md' %}
# Ruby Demo <a href="/assets/pdfs{{page.dir}}{{sluggedName}}.pdf" target="_blank"><img class="download-button" src="/assets/img/download.png" height="30px"></a> 
    RestClient.post($DSK_PATH, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
           case response.code
                  when 201
                    p "It worked !"
                    datasource = JSON.parse(response)
                    $dsk_id = datasource['id']
                    p 'Create Datasource: dsk_id=' + $dsk_id
             else
                    p response.to_s
                    response.return!(request, result, &block)
             end
    }
```

**Read**

```ruby
    RestClient.get($DSK_PATH + $dsk_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
               case response.code
                 when 200
                   p "Got Datasource !" + response.to_s
                 else
                   p response.to_s
                   response.return!(request, result, &block)
                 end
               }
```

**Update**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\":\"BBDN-DSK-RUBY\", \"description\": \"Demo Data Source used for REST Ruby Demo - Updated\" }"
     
        RestClient.patch($DSK_PATH + $dsk_id, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
        case response.code
          when 200
            p 'Updated Datasource: ' + response.to_s
          else
            p response.to_s
            response.return!(request, result, &block)
          end
        }
```

**Delete**

```ruby
    RestClient.delete($DSK_PATH + $dsk_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                when 204
                  p "Datasource Deleted !"
                else
                  p response.to_s
                  response.return!(request, result, &block)
                end
              }
```

### Terms

**Create**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\":\"BBDN-TERM-RUBY\", \"dataSourceId\":\"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"name\" : \"REST Demo Term - Ruby\", \"description\": \"Term Used For REST Demo - Ruby\", \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
    RestClient.post($TERM_PATH, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
         case response.code
               when 201
                      p "It worked !"
                      term = JSON.parse(response)
                      $term_id = term['id']
                      p 'Create Term: term_id=' + $term_id
               else
                      p response.to_s
                      response.return!(request, result, &block)
               end
    }
```

**Read**

```ruby
    RestClient.get($TERM_PATH + $term_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                when 200
                  p "Got Term !" + response.to_s
                else
                  p response.to_s
                  response.return!(request, result, &block)
                end
              }
```

**Update**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\":\"BBDN-TERM-RUBY\", \"dataSourceId\":\"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"name\" : \"REST Demo Term - Ruby\", \"description\": \"Updated Term Used For REST Demo - Ruby\", \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
        RestClient.patch($TERM_PATH + $term_id, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
        case response.code
          when 200
            p 'Updated Term: ' + response.to_s
          else
            p response.to_s
            response.return!(request, result, &block)
          end
        }
```

**Delete**

```ruby
    RestClient.delete($TERM_PATH + $term_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                when 204
                  p "Term Deleted !"
                else
                  p response.to_s
                  response.return!(request, result, &block)
                end
              }
```

### Course

**Create**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\" : \"BBDN-Java-Ruby-Demo\", \"courseId\" : \"BBDN-Java-Ruby-Demo\", \"name\" : \"Course Used For REST Demo - Ruby\", \"description\" : \"Course Used For REST Demo - Ruby\", \"allowGuests\" : \"false\", \"readOnly\" : \"false\", \"termId\" : \"" + $term_id + "\", \"dataSourceId\" : \"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
        RestClient.post($COURSE_PATH, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
        case response.code
          when 201
            p "It worked !"
            course = JSON.parse(response)
            $course_id = course['id']
            p 'Create Course: course_id=' + $course_id
          else
            p response.to_s
            response.return!(request, result, &block)
          end
        }
```

**Read**

```ruby
    RestClient.get($COURSE_PATH + $course_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                when 200
                  p "Got Course !" + response.to_s
                else
                  p response.to_s
                  response.return!(request, result, &block)
                end
              }
```

**Update**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\" : \"BBDN-Java-Ruby-Demo\", \"courseId\" : \"BBDN-Java-Ruby-Demo\", \"name\" : \"Course Used For REST Demo - Ruby\", \"description\" : \"Updated Course Used For REST Demo - Ruby\", \"allowGuests\" : \"false\", \"readOnly\" : \"false\", \"termId\" : \"" + $term_id + "\", \"dataSourceId\" : \"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
        RestClient.patch($COURSE_PATH + $course_id, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
        case response.code
          when 200
          p 'Updated Course: ' + response.to_s
          else
            p response.to_s
            response.return!(request, result, &block)
          end
        }
```

**Delete**

```ruby
    RestClient.delete($COURSE_PATH + $course_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                when 204
                  p "Course Deleted !"
                else
                  p response.to_s
                  response.return!(request, result, &block)
                end
              }
```

### Users

**Create**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\" : \"bbdnrestdemorubyuser\", \"userName\" : \"restrubyuser\", \"password\" : \"Bl@ckb0ard!\", \"studentId\" : \"restrubyuser\", \"dataSourceId\" : \"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"name\" : { \"given\" : \"Ruby\", \"family\" : \"Rest Demo\" }, \"contact\" : { \"email\" : \"developers@blackboard.com\" }, \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
     
          RestClient.post($USER_PATH, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
          case response.code
            when 201
              p "It worked !"
              user = JSON.parse(response)
              $user_id = user['id']
              p 'Create User: user_id=' + $user_id
            else
              p response.to_s
              response.return!(request, result, &block)
            end
          }
```

**Read**

```ruby
    RestClient.get($USER_PATH + $user_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
                case response.code
                  when 200
                    p "Got User !" + response.to_s
                  else
                    p response.to_s
                    response.return!(request, result, &block)
                  end
                }
```

**Update**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"externalId\" : \"bbdnrestdemorubyuser\", \"userName\" : \"restrubyuser\", \"password\" : \"Bl@ckb0ard!\", \"studentId\" : \"restrubyuser\", \"dataSourceId\" : \"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"name\" : { \"given\" : \"Ruby\", \"family\" : \"Rest Demo\", \"middle\" : \"updated\" }, \"contact\" : { \"email\" : \"developers@blackboard.com\" }, \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
     
          RestClient.patch($USER_PATH + $user_id, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
          case response.code
            when 200
            p 'Updated User: ' + response.to_s
            else
              p response.to_s
              response.return!(request, result, &block)
            end
          }
```

**Delete**

```ruby
    RestClient.delete($USER_PATH + $user_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                when 204
                  p "User Deleted !"
                else
                  p response.to_s
                  response.return!(request, result, &block)
                end
              }
```

### Memberships

**Create**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"courseRoleId\" : \"Student\", \"dataSourceId\" : \"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
     
          RestClient.put($COURSE_PATH + $course_id + '/users/' + $user_id, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
          case response.code
            when 201
              p "It worked !"
              membership = JSON.parse(response)
              $created = membership['created']
              p 'Create Membership: ' + $created
            else
              p response.to_s
              response.return!(request, result, &block)
            end
          }
```

**Read**

```ruby
    RestClient.get($COURSE_PATH + $course_id + '/users/' + $user_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
              case response.code
                when 200
                  p "Got Membership !" + response.to_s
                else
                  p response.to_s
                  response.return!(request, result, &block)
                end
              }
```

**Update**

```ruby
    payload = "{ \"userId\" : \"" + $user_id + "\", \"courseId\" : \"" + $course_id + "\", \"courseRoleId\" : \"Instructor\", \"dataSourceId\" : \"" + $dsk_id + "\", \"availability\" : { \"available\" : \"Yes\" } }"
     
          RestClient.patch($COURSE_PATH + $course_id + '/users/' + $user_id, payload, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
          case response.code
            when 200
            p 'Updated Membership: ' + response.to_s
            else
              p response.to_s
              response.return!(request, result, &block)
            end
          }
```

**Delete**

```ruby
    RestClient.delete($COURSE_PATH + $course_id + '/users/' + $user_id, :content_type => :json, :accept => :json, :Authorization => $auth){ |response, request, result, &block|
            case response.code
              when 204
                p "Membership Deleted !"
              else
                p response.to_s
                response.return!(request, result, &block)
              end
            }
```

### Conclusion

All of the code snippets included in this document at included in a sample
REST Demo Ruby application available on
[GitHub](https://github.com/blackboard/BBDN-REST-Demo-Ruby).
There is a README.html included that talks more specifically about building and
running the code. Feel free to review the code and run it against a test or
development Learn instance to see how it works.
