learn/UEF/UEF Tutorials.md, before:

---
layout: learn
parent: uef
category: getting-started
---
# REST Tutorials
*Author: Mark Bykerk Kauffman*  
*Categories: []*  
*Tags: ['developer', 'uef', 'getting started', 'api', 'blackboard', 'developers']*  
<hr />

You will find these tutorials very helpful as you start your Ultra Extension Framework (UEF) developement. 

## How To Ultra Extension Framework - Scott Hurrey DevCon 2020
[Watch the video](https://bbdemo.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=fc63a1ab-ea88-4c79-8ca7-abf70124b035#)

## Ultra Extension Framework - YouTube Tutorial Series
[Watch the entire series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mp9tFpultaQ&list=PLbewGw29xjRa2ZQ7gs3CgisvBVvyuKhsR)

## Sample Code For the Above
[GitHub BBDN-UEF-Python](https://github.com/blackboard/BBDN-UEF-Python)

## Notice
Before releasing a UEF integration to produciton you will be required to meet a certain level of Blackboard Partnership. Reach out to the 'contact us here' link at the bottom of our [Partnership Program FAQs](https://www.blackboard.com/partnerships/become-a-partner/program-faqs) page.

Commit message:

Per Jace to add Premium API emphasis

learn/UEF/UEF Tutorials.md, after:

---
layout: learn
parent: uef
category: getting-started
---
# REST Tutorials
*Author: Mark Bykerk Kauffman*  
*Categories: []*  
*Tags: ['developer', 'uef', 'getting started', 'api', 'blackboard', 'developers']*  
<hr />

You will find these tutorials very helpful as you start your Ultra Extension Framework (UEF) developement. 

## How To Ultra Extension Framework - Scott Hurrey DevCon 2020
[Watch the video](https://bbdemo.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=fc63a1ab-ea88-4c79-8ca7-abf70124b035#)

## Ultra Extension Framework - YouTube Tutorial Series
[Watch the entire series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mp9tFpultaQ&list=PLbewGw29xjRa2ZQ7gs3CgisvBVvyuKhsR)

## Sample Code For the Above
[GitHub BBDN-UEF-Python](https://github.com/blackboard/BBDN-UEF-Python)

## Notice
Before releasing a UEF integration, that uses the UEF ***Premium APIs***, to produciton you will be required to meet a certain level of Blackboard Partnership. [<span style="font-size:12.0pt;line-height:107%">Fill out this form</span>](https://go.blackboard.com/UEF)<span style="font-size:12.0pt;line-height:107%"> to get started.
