rest-apis/learn/getting-started/basic-authentication.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Basic Authentication with REST"
id: rest_apis-learn-getting-started-basic_auth
categories: Learn REST
doc_order_id: 0
---

# Basic Authentication with REST

### Overview

Authentication for REST Integrations follows the [OAuth 2.0 RFC Standard](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749). Each developer has a unique key and secret associated with each application they create. The developer makes an HTTP Post directly to the REST-enabled Learn server requesting an OAuth access token. The Learn instance forwards the request to the Blackboard's API gateway, adding its own siteId to the request so that the gateway can determine whether the application is registered with the server. The API gateway returns an authorization token that grants the application access to the Learn REST API for one hour. The developer uses this token in subsequent REST calls until the token expires. This workflow is illustrated in the following diagram:

![OAuth Workflow Diagram](/assets/img/basic-auth-learn.png)

**WARNING: Never share or expose an application's key/secret pair. These are used for requesting OAuth tokens, which enable the holder to issue REST requests. Exposing an application key/secret pair or token is a serious security risk. If you think you have exposed a key/secret pair you may request a new pair for the application using the Developer Portal My Applications management page.**

REST calls are subject to quotas and limits. For more information, see
[Developer Groups, Site Quotas, and Rate Limit](/rest-apis/learn/admin/groups-quotas-rates).

### Before You Start

- Your Blackboard Learn instance must be registered at [developer.blackboard.com](https://developer.blackboard.com/).
- The application ID you receive when registering at developer.blackboard.com must then be registered on your Blackboard Learn instance. Registering your application on a Learn instance provides the application key:secret pair access to the Learn instance.

### To Get a Token Using Basic OAuth 2.0

Use the following high-level steps to fetch a token from your Learn instance.
Remember that your Learn instance must be registered at
developer.blackboard.com and that your application must be registered on your
Learn instance. Registering your application with your Learn instance provides
you with an application key and secret.

Use cURL or an appropriate HTTP library to make a POST REST call to the
`/learn/api/public/v1/oauth2/token` endpoint.

Headers must include:

- Content-Type set to application/x-www-form-urlencoded
- Authorization set to Basic followed by a space and with your base64-encoded credentials appended. Credentials must be formatted as application-key:secret before encoding.

For example, if your application key were:

- `12345678-1234-5678-1234-1234567890ab

and your secret were

- `abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdef`

you would encode the string:

- `12345678-1234-5678-1234-1234567890ab:abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdef`

yielding the encoded value

- `MTIzNDU2NzgtMTIzNC01Njc4LTEyMzQtMTIzNDU2Nzg5MGFiOmFiY2Rl.htmloaWprbG1ub3BxcnN0dXZ3eHl6YWJjZGVm`

Prepending Basic to that value gives

`Basic MTIzNDU2NzgtMTIzNC01Njc4LTEyMzQtMTIzNDU2Nzg5MGFiOmFiY2Rl.htmloaWprbG1ub3Bx cnN0dXZ3eHl6YWJjZGVm`

which would be your Authorization header value. Some REST libraries and
clients like cURL handle this encoding for you.

The body must include:

- grant_type=client_credentials.

If everything is working correctly, the server will return an HTTP 200
response and a data body. The data body includes a field access_token. Your
access token for further REST calls is the value of this field.

### To Make a REST Call with the Basic OAuth 2.0 Token

Use the following high-level steps to use a Blackboard Learn REST API token to
authorize other REST calls.

Use cURL or an appropriate HTTP library to make a REST call to the appropriate
endpoint. For a list of endpoints and the methods supported for each, see the
Blackboard Learn REST reference docs at https://developer.blackboard.com/portal/displayApi/Learn.

**Headers must include:**

- Content-Type and Accept should be set as specified by the reference docs for the call you want.
- Authorization set to Bearer followed by a space and your access token. For example, `Bearer abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdef`
- The body and URL parameters must be set as specified by the reference docs for the call you want.

If everything is working correctly, the server will return an HTTP 200
response and a response body as specified by the reference docs for the call
you made.

### Example: Using cURL to Get a Token and Make a REST Call

The easist way to test is using cURL. We will assume you have already
registered through the [Developer Portal](/rest-apis/learn/getting-started/registry) and
retrieved your application ID, key, and secret, as well as [added your application ID](/rest-apis/learn/admin/rest-and-learn) to
the Learn server you wish to integrate with:

1. From the command line, use cURL to send a token request to Learn, signed with their application key and secret:

```shell
    key=<your key>
    secret=<your secret>
    curl -i -X POST -u "$key:$secret" https://<your server>/learn/api/public/v1/oauth2/token
    -d "grant_type=client_credentials"
```

The cURL statement calls and HTTP POST request. This POST request contains an
Authorization header that states this is Basic authentication. The cURL
command uses the -u switch to create and send a Base64-encoded version of
key:secret. cURL sets content-type to application/x-www-form-urlencoded for
you.

2. The developer portal returns a standard OAuth 2.0 response, which is passed back to the developer. For example:

```shell

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
    Cache-Control: no-store
    Pragma: no-cache 
    {
         "access_token": "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdef",
         "token_type": "bearer",
         "expires_in": 3600
    }
```

3. Use the returned access token to make further REST calls. For example:

```shell
    curl -X GET -H "authorization: Bearer abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"
    https://yourserver/learn/api/public/v1/users?query=userName
```

### Implementation notes:

- Tokens expire after 1 hour, as per the OAuth RFC examples.
- Tokens are associated with a specific Learn site.
- Any application may have only one token per Learn site. Asking for a token returns the existing one with an updated expiry time if it has not expired yet.
- Check the [REST API Documentation](https://developer.blackboard.com/portal/displayApi) for error codes.

Commit message:

We are now Anthology (#128)
* change Bb text, remove deprecated docs, etc.

* fix moneil references.

* ATD link, others

* More rebranding tweaking...

* fixing student docs pages

* Update ANTHOLOGY-Logo-RGB.png

* rebranding v2 tweaks.

* rebranding tweaks

* rebranding v2 tweaks

* rebranding - added student menu and pages

* moved deprecated to archives and added PDF support.

Moved most deprecated docs to archives, added md2pdf script and generated pdfs, updated selected .md files for pdf generation and downloads.

* final

* Last commit for a Tuesday.

Fixed broken PDF links and removed liquid text from pdf - see md2pdf.sh for notes.

* Fixed liquid PDF download block so it does not render in PDFs.

* Read input for auto overwrites of PDFs.

* Rebranding v1 (#124)

* moved deprecated to archives and added PDF support.

Moved most deprecated docs to archives, added md2pdf script and generated pdfs, updated selected .md files for pdf generation and downloads.

* final

* Last commit for a Tuesday.

Fixed broken PDF links and removed liquid text from pdf - see md2pdf.sh for notes.

* Fixed liquid PDF download block so it does not render in PDFs.

* Read input for auto overwrites of PDFs.

* Fixed logic error behind the default action for auto overwrite prompt.

* Updated the css abit

* Rebranding v1 (#126)

* fix cloud-registry.md

* add cloud registry pdf

* improved md2pdf conversion workflow - does not display unconverted mds in converted PDF results list.

* Update main.css

* fix converted list

* Rebranding v1 (#127)

* fix cloud-registry.md

* add cloud registry pdf

* improved md2pdf conversion workflow - does not display unconverted mds in converted PDF results list.

* Update main.css

* fix converted list

* support md2pdf conversion

* update menu

Co-authored-by: Davey Herrera <davey.herrera@blackboard.com>

rest-apis/learn/getting-started/basic-authentication.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Basic Authentication with REST"
id: rest_apis-learn-getting-started-basic_auth
categories: Learn REST
doc_order_id: 0
doctitle: "Basic Authentication with REST"
pdf: true
---

# Basic Authentication with REST

### Overview

Authentication for REST Integrations follows the [OAuth 2.0 RFC Standard](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749). Each developer has a unique key and secret associated with each application they create. The developer makes an HTTP Post directly to the REST-enabled Learn server requesting an OAuth access token. The Learn instance forwards the request to Anthology's Developer Portal, adding its own siteId to the request so that the portal can determine whether the application is registered with the server. The Portal returns an authorization token that grants the application access to the Learn REST API for one hour. The developer uses this token in subsequent REST calls until the token expires. This workflow is illustrated in the following diagram:

![OAuth Workflow Diagram](/assets/img/basic-auth-learn.png)

**WARNING: Never share or expose an application's key/secret pair. These are used for requesting OAuth tokens, which enable the holder to issue REST requests. Exposing an application key/secret pair or token is a serious security risk. If you think you have exposed a key/secret pair you may request a new pair for the application using the Developer Portal My Applications management page.**

REST calls are subject to quotas and limits. For more information, see
[Developer Groups, Site Quotas, and Rate Limit](/rest-apis/learn/admin/groups-quotas-rates).

### Before You Start

- Your Learn instance must be registered at [developer.anthology.com](https://developer.anthology.com/).
- The application ID you receive when registering at developer.anthology.com must then be registered on your Learn instance. Registering your application on a Learn instance provides the application key:secret pair access to the Learn instance.

### To Get a Token Using Basic OAuth 2.0

Use the following high-level steps to fetch a token from your Learn instance.
Remember that your Learn instance must be registered at
developer.anthology.com and that your application must be registered on your
Learn instance. Registering your application with your Learn instance provides
you with an application key and secret.

Use cURL or an appropriate HTTP library to make a POST REST call to the
`/learn/api/public/v1/oauth2/token` endpoint.

Headers must include:

- Content-Type set to application/x-www-form-urlencoded
- Authorization set to Basic followed by a space and with your base64-encoded credentials appended. Credentials must be formatted as application-key:secret before encoding.

For example, if your application key were:

- `12345678-1234-5678-1234-1234567890ab

and your secret were

- `abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdef`

you would encode the string:

- `12345678-1234-5678-1234-1234567890ab:abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdef`

yielding the encoded value

- `MTIzNDU2NzgtMTIzNC01Njc4LTEyMzQtMTIzNDU2Nzg5MGFiOmFiY2Rl.htmloaWprbG1ub3BxcnN0dXZ3eHl6YWJjZGVm`

Prepending Basic to that value gives

`Basic MTIzNDU2NzgtMTIzNC01Njc4LTEyMzQtMTIzNDU2Nzg5MGFiOmFiY2Rl.htmloaWprbG1ub3Bx cnN0dXZ3eHl6YWJjZGVm`

which would be your Authorization header value. Some REST libraries and
clients like cURL handle this encoding for you.

The body must include:

- grant_type=client_credentials.

If everything is working correctly, the server will return an HTTP 200
response and a data body. The data body includes a field access_token. Your
access token for further REST calls is the value of this field.

### To Make a REST Call with the Basic OAuth 2.0 Token

Use the following high-level steps to use a Learn REST API token to
authorize other REST calls.

Use cURL or an appropriate HTTP library to make a REST call to the appropriate
endpoint. For a list of endpoints and the methods supported for each, see the
Learn REST reference docs at https://developer.anthology.com/portal/displayApi/Learn.

**Headers must include:**

- Content-Type and Accept should be set as specified by the reference docs for the call you want.
- Authorization set to Bearer followed by a space and your access token. For example, `Bearer abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdef`
- The body and URL parameters must be set as specified by the reference docs for the call you want.

If everything is working correctly, the server will return an HTTP 200
response and a response body as specified by the reference docs for the call
you made.

### Example: Using cURL to Get a Token and Make a REST Call

The easist way to test is using cURL. We will assume you have already
registered through the [Developer Portal](/rest-apis/learn/getting-started/registry) and
retrieved your application ID, key, and secret, as well as [added your application ID](/rest-apis/learn/admin/rest-and-learn) to
the Learn server you wish to integrate with:

1. From the command line, use cURL to send a token request to Learn, signed with their application key and secret:

```shell
    key=<your key>
    secret=<your secret>
    curl -i -X POST -u "$key:$secret" https://<your server>/learn/api/public/v1/oauth2/token
    -d "grant_type=client_credentials"
```

The cURL statement calls and HTTP POST request. This POST request contains an
Authorization header that states this is Basic authentication. The cURL
command uses the -u switch to create and send a Base64-encoded version of
key:secret. cURL sets content-type to application/x-www-form-urlencoded for
you.

2. The developer portal returns a standard OAuth 2.0 response, which is passed back to the developer. For example:

```shell

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
    Cache-Control: no-store
    Pragma: no-cache 
    {
         "access_token": "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzabcdef",
         "token_type": "bearer",
         "expires_in": 3600
    }
```

3. Use the returned access token to make further REST calls. For example:

```shell
    curl -X GET -H "authorization: Bearer abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"
    https://yourserver/learn/api/public/v1/users?query=userName
```

### Implementation notes:

- Tokens expire after 1 hour, as per the OAuth RFC examples.
- Tokens are associated with a specific Learn site.
- Any application may have only one token per Learn site. Asking for a token returns the existing one with an updated expiry time if it has not expired yet.
- Check the [REST API Documentation](https://developer.anthology.com/portal/displayApi) for error codes.
