rest-apis/learn/getting-started/registry.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Rest registry"
id: rest_apis-learn-getting-started-registry
categories: Learn Rest
author: Mark O' Neil
---

# Rest Registry

### What's in the Box?

The Blackboard developer portal is located at [https://developer.blackboard.com](https://developer.blackboard.com){:target="\_blank"} There, you can:

- Sign up for a Developer Account
- Read API Reference Documentation
- Register a REST Application or an LTI Tool
- Delete an application

### Sign up for a Developer Account

Blackboard Learn integrations begin at the Developer Portal. This is where you
register applications and get an application ID, key/secrets, and other vital
information. In the portal, you can see which client systems are using the
integrations. Signing up is free, and you can develop your integration at no
cost. There may be cost involved in deploying your integration, but before
that happens, you'll speak with us and we'll provide further guidance. To
discuss deploying your application, please contact the developer experience
team at [developers@blackboard.com](mailto:developers@blackboard.com).

You don't have to register right away, but before you can authenticate your
project so it works with Blackboard applications, you will need to be
registered.

To register as a Blackboard developer:

1. Go to https://developer.blackboard.com and select Sign Up. Read and agree to the terms and conditions.
2. Provide your email address, a password, your first name and last, and select the checkbox to prove you are human.
3. Select Create Account and you're on your way.

**Note:** If you are a Blackboard client - a Blackboard Partner / Vendor / Developer of a REST Application should NEVER tell you to go to the developer portal and create an App ID with the associated key/secret to install their application. They should never tell you to apply for a Rate/Site increase for their application. Blackboard DOES NOT support that model. Every REST Application developer should give you an App ID to install their REST App and tell you how to configure a system role for it's use. Period. The REST Application developer needs to request the increases they need to run their application themselves. If they ask you to go to developer.blackboard.com and get an App ID/Key/Secret, please tell them that is wrong. They should have exactly one App ID for their production REST application that they are asking you to install.

### Read API Reference Documentation

To view the API reference documentation go to
https://developer.blackboard.com and select **Explore
APIs**.You can also browse [code examples](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Ablackboard+BBDN-REST&unscoped_q=BBDN-REST) and participate in the [developer community
site](https://community.blackboard.com/developers).

### Register a REST Application or an LTI Tool

Before you can release an application or tool to the Blackboard ecosystem, you
must first register as a Blackboard developer by creating a developer account.
To register as a blackboard developer, see _Sign up for a Developer Account_
above.

To register an application or LTI tool:

1. Select **Register** below the heading "Register and Manage Your Applications".  
   If you do not already have any registered applications, you will see a screen
   like the one shown below.

![manageapps.png](/assets/img/registry-1.png)

If you do not already have any applications registered,
select **Register**.

Otherwise you will see a list of your registered applications. Select the
**+** button to register a new one.

2. By default, the first available development group is named after the user creating the app. You can change this later. The following fields are required.


    * For REST and LTI 1.1 applications, provide:
      * **Name** and **Description** for your application and select a **Group** to work on the project
      * a comma-separated white list of one or more **Domain(s)** that can use the app's key/secret to access Blackboard applications
    * For LTI 1.3 tools, complete all fields.

3. Select **Save**. Learn displays your application's name and description to Learn administrators when they connect your application to their system. This helps them make sure they have found the intended application.
4. Write down or copy-and-paste the **Application Key** and **Secret** and other information that you are provided. Your application needs this key and secret to authenticate with Blackboard Learn. Blackboard does not keep any record of these properties. If you lose them, Blackboard cannot help you restore them.
5. Select **Continue**.

### Delete an application

When you login after having created applications, you will see them listed
under My Applications.To delete an application:

1. Mouse over the its record in the **Your Applications** list. A delete icon appears.
2. Confirm your choice by selecting **Delete Application**. The application is removed from your list of applications and is no longer registered to the Blackboard cloud.

Commit message:

We are now Anthology (#128)
* change Bb text, remove deprecated docs, etc.

* fix moneil references.

* ATD link, others

* More rebranding tweaking...

* fixing student docs pages

* Update ANTHOLOGY-Logo-RGB.png

* rebranding v2 tweaks.

* rebranding tweaks

* rebranding v2 tweaks

* rebranding - added student menu and pages

* moved deprecated to archives and added PDF support.

Moved most deprecated docs to archives, added md2pdf script and generated pdfs, updated selected .md files for pdf generation and downloads.

* final

* Last commit for a Tuesday.

Fixed broken PDF links and removed liquid text from pdf - see md2pdf.sh for notes.

* Fixed liquid PDF download block so it does not render in PDFs.

* Read input for auto overwrites of PDFs.

* Rebranding v1 (#124)

* moved deprecated to archives and added PDF support.

Moved most deprecated docs to archives, added md2pdf script and generated pdfs, updated selected .md files for pdf generation and downloads.

* final

* Last commit for a Tuesday.

Fixed broken PDF links and removed liquid text from pdf - see md2pdf.sh for notes.

* Fixed liquid PDF download block so it does not render in PDFs.

* Read input for auto overwrites of PDFs.

* Fixed logic error behind the default action for auto overwrite prompt.

* Updated the css abit

* Rebranding v1 (#126)

* fix cloud-registry.md

* add cloud registry pdf

* improved md2pdf conversion workflow - does not display unconverted mds in converted PDF results list.

* Update main.css

* fix converted list

* Rebranding v1 (#127)

* fix cloud-registry.md

* add cloud registry pdf

* improved md2pdf conversion workflow - does not display unconverted mds in converted PDF results list.

* Update main.css

* fix converted list

* support md2pdf conversion

* update menu

Co-authored-by: Davey Herrera <davey.herrera@blackboard.com>

rest-apis/learn/getting-started/registry.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Rest registry"
id: rest_apis-learn-getting-started-registry
categories: Learn Rest
author: Mark O' Neil
---

# Rest Registry

### What's in the Box?

The Anthology developer portal is located at [https://developer.anthology.com](https://developer.anthology.com){:target="\_blank"} There, you can:

- Sign up for a Developer Account
- Read API Reference Documentation
- Register a REST Application or an LTI Tool
- Delete an application

### Sign up for a Developer Account

Anthology integrations begin at the Developer Portal. This is where you
register applications and get an application ID, key/secrets, and other vital
information. In the portal, you can see which client systems are using the
integrations. Signing up is free, and you can develop your integration at no
cost. There may be cost involved in deploying your integration, but before
that happens, you'll speak with us and we'll provide further guidance. To
discuss deploying your application, please contact the developer experience
team at [developers@blackboard.com](mailto:developers@blackboard.com).

You don't have to register right away, but before you can authenticate your
project so it works with Anthology applications, you will need to be
registered.

To register as a Anthology developer:

1. Go to https://developer.anthology.com and select Sign Up. Read and agree to the terms and conditions.
2. Provide your email address, a password, your first name and last, and select the checkbox to prove you are human.
3. Select Create Account and you're on your way.

**Note:** If you are an Anthology client - an Anthology Partner / Vendor / Developer of a REST Application should NEVER tell you to go to the developer portal and create an App ID with the associated key/secret to install their application. They should never tell you to apply for a Rate/Site increase for their application. Anthology DOES NOT support that model. Every REST Application developer should give you an App ID to install their REST App and tell you how to configure a system role for it's use. Period. The REST Application developer needs to request the increases they need to run their application themselves. If they ask you to go to developer.anthology.com and get an App ID/Key/Secret, please tell them that is wrong. They should have exactly one App ID for their production REST application that they are asking you to install.

### Read API Reference Documentation

To view the API reference documentation go to
https://developer.anthology.com and select **Explore
APIs**.You can also browse [code examples](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Ablackboard+BBDN-REST&unscoped_q=BBDN-REST) and participate in the [developer community
site](https://community.blackboard.com/developers).

### Register a REST Application or an LTI Tool

Before you can release an application or tool to the Anthology ecosystem, you
must first register as an Anthology developer by creating a developer account.
To register as an Anthology developer, see _Sign up for a Developer Account_
above.

To register an application or LTI tool:

1. Select **Register** below the heading "Register and Manage Your Applications".  
   If you do not already have any registered applications, you will see a screen
   like the one shown below.

![manageapps.png](/assets/img/registry-1.png)

If you do not already have any applications registered,
select **Register**.

Otherwise you will see a list of your registered applications. Select the
**+** button to register a new one.

2. By default, the first available development group is named after the user creating the app. You can change this later. The following fields are required.


    * For REST and LTI 1.1 applications, provide:
      * **Name** and **Description** for your application and select a **Group** to work on the project
      * a comma-separated white list of one or more **Domain(s)** that can use the app's key/secret to access Anthology applications
    * For LTI 1.3 tools, complete all fields.

3. Select **Save**. Learn displays your application's name and description to Learn administrators when they connect your application to their system. This helps them make sure they have found the intended application.
4. Write down or copy-and-paste the **Application Key** and **Secret** and other information that you are provided. Your application needs this key and secret to authenticate with Learn. Anthology does not keep any record of these properties. If you lose them, Anthology cannot help you restore them.
5. Select **Continue**.

### Delete an application

When you login after having created applications, you will see them listed
under My Applications.To delete an application:

1. Mouse over the its record in the **Your Applications** list. A delete icon appears.
2. Confirm your choice by selecting **Delete Application**. The application is removed from your list of applications and is no longer registered to the Anthology cloud.
