rest-apis/learn/advanced/contenthandler-datatypes.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Data types for contentHandler"
id: rest_apis-learn-advanced-content_hndlr
categories: Learn REST
author: Ryan Haber
---

# Data types for contentHandler

Blackboard Learn's `/contents` endpoints accommodate different types of content
by using different handlers. Use the contentHandler field of requests and
responses to indicate which content handler should be used. Available
contentHandlers their uses are summarized below.

Supported handlers include:

| contentHandler ID                                            | Description                                                                                                   | Supported since |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| [resource/x-bb-document](#resourcex-bb-document)             | (Original) base document type, consists of rich text with an associated title<br />(Ultra) basic content item | 3000.1.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-externallink](#resourcex-bb-externallink)     | external link                                                                                                 | 3000.1.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-folder](#resourcex-bb-folder)                 | document that has child documents                                                                             | 3000.1.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-courselink](#resourcex-bb-courselink)         | link to a Blackboard course                                                                                   | 3100.5.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-forumlink](#resourcex-bb-forumlink)           | link to a discussion object                                                                                   | 3100.6.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-blti-link](#resourcex-bb-blti-link)           | link to an LTI object                                                                                         | 3200.6.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-file](#resourcex-bb-file)                     | represents a file object within Learn                                                                         | 3200.6.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-asmt-test-link](#resourcex-bb-asmt-test-link) | (Ultra only) Ultra assignment or test object                                                                  | 3300.5.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-assignment](#resourcex-bb-assignment)         | (Original only)                                                                                               | 3400.9.0        |

### resource/x-bb-document

- **Original experience**: Base content type consisting of rich text with an associated title.
- **Ultra**: represents the body of an Ultra document object. It must be the child of a resource/x-bb-folder content item for which isBbPage=true.

### resource/x-bb-externallink

Link to an external resource. It has the following properties:

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Blackboard Learn
- url (string) of the external resource

### resource/x-bb-folder

Content item that contains child content items. It has the following
properties:

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Blackboard Learn
- isBbPage (boolean) whether the object represents a page in its own right

### resource/x-bb-courselink

Content item with a link to other objects within Blackboard Learn. It has the
following properties:

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Blackboard Learn
- targetId (string) of the linked Blackboard Learn object
- targetType (string) is the Blackboard object type of the linked object. Possible values include:
  - Unset
  - CourseAssessment
  - CourseTOC
  - Forum
  - Tool
  - CollabSession (deprecated since 3000.1.0)
  - Group
  - BlogJournal
  - StaffInfo
  - ModulePage

### resource/x-bb-forumlink

Content item with a link to a discussion object. It has the following
properties:

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Blackboard Learn
- discussionId (string) for the discussion object in Blackboard Learn

### resource/x-bb-blti-link

Representation of an LTI link within course content. It has the following
properties:

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Blackboard Learn
- url (string) of the the LTI link
- customParameters is a map of custom parameters to POST to the specified launch URL. Learn serializes the entire custom parameters map, so you should specify all custom parameters when the map is changed.

### resource/x-bb-file

Representation of a file uploaded to course content.

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Blackboard Learn
- file is an object with the following properties:
  - uploadId (string, read-only) is the system-assigned ID of the uploaded file
  - fileName (string) is the name of the file
  - mimeType (string, read-only) is the MIME type. Blackboard Learn uses IANA standards to assign MIME type based on the filename extension.
  - duplicateFileHandling (string, optional) used to describe behavior when a file is uploaded that duplicates an existing filename. Options include:
    - Rename (default) causes the new file with the duplicate name to be renamed.
    - Replace causes the new file to replace the earlier file with the same name.
    - ThrowError causes Learn to throw an error.

### resource/x-bb-asmt-test-link

(Ultra experience only) Representation of an assignment/test link object

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Blackboard Learn
- assessmentId (string) is the ID of the associated assessment
- gradeColumnId (string) is the ID of the associated grade column

### resource/x-bb-assignment

(Original experience only)

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Blackboard Learn
- gradeColumnId (string, read only) ID of the associated grade column
- groupContent (boolean) specifies whether or not the content is group content.

Commit message:

We are now Anthology (#128)
* change Bb text, remove deprecated docs, etc.

* fix moneil references.

* ATD link, others

* More rebranding tweaking...

* fixing student docs pages

* Update ANTHOLOGY-Logo-RGB.png

* rebranding v2 tweaks.

* rebranding tweaks

* rebranding v2 tweaks

* rebranding - added student menu and pages

* moved deprecated to archives and added PDF support.

Moved most deprecated docs to archives, added md2pdf script and generated pdfs, updated selected .md files for pdf generation and downloads.

* final

* Last commit for a Tuesday.

Fixed broken PDF links and removed liquid text from pdf - see md2pdf.sh for notes.

* Fixed liquid PDF download block so it does not render in PDFs.

* Read input for auto overwrites of PDFs.

* Rebranding v1 (#124)

* moved deprecated to archives and added PDF support.

Moved most deprecated docs to archives, added md2pdf script and generated pdfs, updated selected .md files for pdf generation and downloads.

* final

* Last commit for a Tuesday.

Fixed broken PDF links and removed liquid text from pdf - see md2pdf.sh for notes.

* Fixed liquid PDF download block so it does not render in PDFs.

* Read input for auto overwrites of PDFs.

* Fixed logic error behind the default action for auto overwrite prompt.

* Updated the css abit

* Rebranding v1 (#126)

* fix cloud-registry.md

* add cloud registry pdf

* improved md2pdf conversion workflow - does not display unconverted mds in converted PDF results list.

* Update main.css

* fix converted list

* Rebranding v1 (#127)

* fix cloud-registry.md

* add cloud registry pdf

* improved md2pdf conversion workflow - does not display unconverted mds in converted PDF results list.

* Update main.css

* fix converted list

* support md2pdf conversion

* update menu

Co-authored-by: Davey Herrera <davey.herrera@blackboard.com>

rest-apis/learn/advanced/contenthandler-datatypes.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Data types for contentHandler"
id: rest_apis-learn-advanced-content_hndlr
categories: Learn REST
author: Ryan Haber
doctitle: "Data types for contentHandler"
pdf: true
---


# Data types for contentHandler

Learn's `/contents` endpoints accommodate different types of content
by using different handlers. Use the contentHandler field of requests and
responses to indicate which content handler should be used. Available
contentHandlers their uses are summarized below.

Supported handlers include:

| contentHandler ID                                            | Description                                                                                                   | Supported since |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| [resource/x-bb-document](#resourcex-bb-document)             | (Original) base document type, consists of rich text with an associated title<br />(Ultra) basic content item | 3000.1.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-externallink](#resourcex-bb-externallink)     | external link                                                                                                 | 3000.1.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-folder](#resourcex-bb-folder)                 | document that has child documents                                                                             | 3000.1.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-courselink](#resourcex-bb-courselink)         | link to a Blackboard course                                                                                   | 3100.5.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-forumlink](#resourcex-bb-forumlink)           | link to a discussion object                                                                                   | 3100.6.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-blti-link](#resourcex-bb-blti-link)           | link to an LTI object                                                                                         | 3200.6.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-file](#resourcex-bb-file)                     | represents a file object within Learn                                                                         | 3200.6.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-asmt-test-link](#resourcex-bb-asmt-test-link) | (Ultra only) Ultra assignment or test object                                                                  | 3300.5.0        |
| [resource/x-bb-assignment](#resourcex-bb-assignment)         | (Original only)                                                                                               | 3400.9.0        |

### resource/x-bb-document

- **Original experience**: Base content type consisting of rich text with an associated title.
- **Ultra**: represents the body of an Ultra document object. It must be the child of a resource/x-bb-folder content item for which isBbPage=true.

### resource/x-bb-externallink

Link to an external resource. It has the following properties:

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Learn
- url (string) of the external resource

### resource/x-bb-folder

Content item that contains child content items. It has the following
properties:

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Learn
- isBbPage (boolean) whether the object represents a page in its own right

### resource/x-bb-courselink

Content item with a link to other objects within Learn. It has the
following properties:

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Learn
- targetId (string) of the linked Learn object
- targetType (string) is the Blackboard object type of the linked object. Possible values include:
  - Unset
  - CourseAssessment
  - CourseTOC
  - Forum
  - Tool
  - CollabSession (deprecated since 3000.1.0)
  - Group
  - BlogJournal
  - StaffInfo
  - ModulePage

### resource/x-bb-forumlink

Content item with a link to a discussion object. It has the following
properties:

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Learn
- discussionId (string) for the discussion object in Learn

### resource/x-bb-blti-link

Representation of an LTI link within course content. It has the following
properties:

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Learn
- url (string) of the the LTI link
- customParameters is a map of custom parameters to POST to the specified launch URL. Learn serializes the entire custom parameters map, so you should specify all custom parameters when the map is changed.

### resource/x-bb-file

Representation of a file uploaded to course content.

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Learn
- file is an object with the following properties:
  - uploadId (string, read-only) is the system-assigned ID of the uploaded file
  - fileName (string) is the name of the file
  - mimeType (string, read-only) is the MIME type. Learn uses IANA standards to assign MIME type based on the filename extension.
  - duplicateFileHandling (string, optional) used to describe behavior when a file is uploaded that duplicates an existing filename. Options include:
    - Rename (default) causes the new file with the duplicate name to be renamed.
    - Replace causes the new file to replace the earlier file with the same name.
    - ThrowError causes Learn to throw an error.

### resource/x-bb-asmt-test-link

(Ultra experience only) Representation of an assignment/test link object

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Learn
- assessmentId (string) is the ID of the associated assessment
- gradeColumnId (string) is the ID of the associated grade column

### resource/x-bb-assignment

(Original experience only)

- id (string, read-only) of the object in Learn
- gradeColumnId (string, read only) ID of the associated grade column
- groupContent (boolean) specifies whether or not the content is group content.
