community/getting-involved.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Getting Involved"
id: community-getting_involved
categories: Community
author: Scott Hurrey
---

# Be a part of the Community!

Getting involved in the Developer community is easy and with options to suit your goals…

- If you have not already done so, register for an Anthology Developer Community account to interact. Its free, and gives you the ability to participate in all of the Anthology Communities. If you are interested in contributing to the blogs here on the Community site, let us know.
- Build a tutorial
  - If there is an area of the product or a technology that you feel deserves more or better documentation, please consider working with us to build a tutorial so that we can share that information with the community.
- Host a webinar
  - Please consider hosting a Webinar on any topic that you feel would benefit the developer community. We are able to provide a conference line and Collaborate software to support your webinar. Contact us if you are interested.
  - The Developer Office Hours is interested in hosting your presentation. Contact us if you have a topic on which you would like to present.
- [Contribute an idea](https://community.blackboard.com/developers){: target='\_blank'} for a Building Block or LTI Tool
- [Collaborate on a project](https://github.com/oscelot){: target='\_blank'}
- [Share your solution](https://github.com/oscelot){: target='\_blank'}
- [Link to your blog](https://community.blackboard.com/developers){: target='\_blank'}
- Present at a conference or user group event
  - Check the [Calendar of Events](https://community.blackboard.com/developers) for upcoming deadlines or regularly meeting groups which may benefit from your experience
- [Host an event](mailto:bbpartnerteam@blackboard.com)
- E-mail [BbDN](mailto:bbpartnerteam@blackboard.com) with your event details so that we can add it to our events calendar.
- [Give us feedback](mailto:developers@anthology.com)
- [Sponsor an event](https://www.blackboard.com/Contact-Us/Events-Center/Industry-Events.aspx){: target='\_blank'}

Commit message:

Added the tech office hours call time

community/getting-involved.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Getting Involved"
id: community-getting_involved
categories: Community
author: Scott Hurrey
---

# Be a part of the Community!

Getting involved in the Developer community is easy and with options to suit your goals…

- If you have not already done so, register for an Anthology Developer Community account to interact. Its free, and gives you the ability to participate in all of the Anthology Communities. If you are interested in contributing to the blogs here on the Community site, let us know.
- Build a tutorial
  - If there is an area of the product or a technology that you feel deserves more or better documentation, please consider working with us to build a tutorial so that we can share that information with the community.
- Host a webinar
  - Please consider hosting a Webinar on any topic that you feel would benefit the developer community. We are able to provide a conference line and Collaborate software to support your webinar. Contact us if you are interested.
  - The Developer Office Hours is interested in hosting your presentation. Contact us if you have a topic on which you would like to present.
- [Contribute an idea](https://community.anthology.com/developers){: target='\_blank'} for a Building Block or LTI Tool
- [Collaborate on a project](https://github.com/oscelot){: target='\_blank'}
- [Share your solution](https://github.com/oscelot){: target='\_blank'}
- [Link to your blog](https://community.anthology.com/developers){: target='\_blank'}
- Present at a conference or user group event
  - Check the [Calendar of Events](https://community.anthology.com/developers) for upcoming deadlines or regularly meeting groups which may benefit from your experience
- [Host an event](mailto:bbpartnerteam@anthology.com)
- E-mail [BbDN](mailto:bbpartnerteam@anthology.com) with your event details so that we can add it to our events calendar.
- [Give us feedback](mailto:developers@anthology.com)
- Join the [Anthology Techies Slack channel](https://join.slack.com/t/blackboardtechies/shared_invite/)

### Tech office hours call

Join our call, every wednesday at 10:00 AM Central on [this link](https://bit.ly/technical-office-hours)
