partners/become-a-partner.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Become a Partner!"
id: partners-become_a_partner
categories: Partners
---

# Become a Partner!

While our Community partner level is FREE to developers and provides access to the Blackboard Learn AMI for developers to build REST and LTI applications, API limits apply and Behind the Blackboard support access is not included. Consider investing in one of our other partnership levels to receive added benefits that help partners deepen integrations, promote solutions and connect with Blackboard clients.

Blackboard Developers Network (BbDN) is Blackboard’s basic partnership and is available for $3,000 annually. BbDN Partnerships include the following benefits:

Member partners receive:

- One (1) Blackboard Learn Developer License (for a self-hosted instance)
- Access to Shared SaaS sites
- Access to Behind the Blackboard Support portal
- Custom listing in our Partner Catalog
- Listing in our App Catalog
- Use of Blackboard Licensed Marks in marketing materials (subject to approval)
- Eligible to sponsor exhibit at BbWorld® and other Blackboard events.

BbDN Partners also have the option to add-on of a “Blackboard Learn SaaS Starter site” for $2,000 annually.

- Limited use for testing/demo purposes
- Licensed for 20 active users and 20 GB Storage
- Updated automatically against the Blackboard Learn [SaaS Test Release schedule](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes/Learn_SaaS_Release_Schedule#cd_schedule)
- For more info, see our help details [About the Blackboard Learn SaaS Deployment](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/About_Learn_SaaS_Deployment)

Sign up for the BbDN agreement today on our [registration page](http://secureapp.blackboard.com/pgforms/Pages/registration/Order-Form.aspx?template=new_comm), or visit our [Partnerships Program page](https://www.blackboard.com/partnerships/become-a-partner) to learn about additional opportunities to work together.

Commit message:

update from the partnerships team

partners/become-a-partner.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Become a Partner!"
id: partners-become_a_partner
categories: Partners
---

# Become a Partner!

Our Community partnership level is FREE to developers and provides access to the Blackboard Learn AMI (Amazon Machine Images) for developers to build REST and LTI applications*, API limits apply and Behind the Blackboard support is not included. [Community support is available](https://community.blackboard.com). 

Consider investing in one of our other partnership levels to receive added benefits that help partners deepen integrations, promote solutions, and connect with Blackboard clients. The Blackboard Developers Network (BbDN) is Blackboard’s standard partnership and is available for $3,000 annually. BbDN Partnerships include the following benefits: 

- One (1) Blackboard Learn Developer License (for a self-hosted instance)
- Access to Shared SaaS sites
- Access to Behind the Blackboard Support portal for technical support
- Custom listing in our [Partner Directory](https://www.blackboard.com/partnerships/partners/directory)
- Listing in our [Blackboard App Catalog](https://appcatalog.blackboard.com/)
- Use of Blackboard Licensed Marks in marketing materials (subject to approval)
- Eligible to sponsor exhibit at [Anthology Together](https://www.anthology.com/together?utm_campaign=Global_2022_Cross_Event_UserConference_SaveTheDate_PMB_Unopened&utm_medium=email&utm_source=Eloqua&utm_content=Global_2022_Cross_Event_UserConference_SaveTheDate_PMB_Unopened) and other Blackboard events.

BbDN Partners also have the option to add-on of a “Blackboard Learn SaaS Starter site” for $2,000 annually.
Through a BbDN Learn SaaS Starter Site, you receive: 
- A dedicated Blackboard Learn instance
- The ability to test in Learn Original and Ultra for client demonstrations
- Licensed for 20 active users and 20 GB Storage
- Updated automatically against the Blackboard Learn [SaaS Test Release schedule](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/Release_Notes/Learn_SaaS_Release_Schedule#cd_schedule)
- For more info, see our help details [About the Blackboard Learn SaaS Deployment](https://help.blackboard.com/Learn/Administrator/SaaS/About_Learn_SaaS_Deployment)

Purchase your BbDN partnership [here for US Companies](https://shop.blackboard.com/ccrz__ProductList?categoryId=aE25Y000000kAAhSAM&cartId=1c3c450c-88af-4f56-a9be-562a1645303d&cclcl=en_US) or, for Non-US companies, sign up on our [registration page](https://secureapp.blackboard.com/pgforms/Pages/registration/Order-Form.aspx?template=new_comm). Visit our [Partnerships Program page](https://www.blackboard.com/partnerships/become-a-partner) to learn about additional opportunities to work together.

Blackboard Partnerships Team

*REST is an acronym for REpresentational State Transfer and an architectural style for distributed hypermedia systems. Blackboard Learn has a complete suite of APIs based on this standard. See [developer.blackboard.com](https://developer.blackboard.com). LTI is an industry standard developed by the IMS. Blackboard Learn supports LTI 1.1 and LTI 1.3 Advantage. See www.imsglobal.org/activity/learning-tools-interoperability
