rest-apis/learn/admin/production-groups.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Production groups"
id: rest_apis-learn-admin-prod-groups
categories: Learn Rest Admin
author: Scott Hurrey
---

# Developer Portal, Development and Production Groups

### What are Groups?

The Blackboard Developer Portal provides the means to manage application
releases and associated developers through the concept of Groups. You can
create groups for individual and team development, as well as **target a
specific group for a production application release (your Production Group)**.
This allows you to manage your applications and the developer teams behind
them, enabling access to application references by team members.

Groups always have at least one member - that unique member has admin rights
and may not be removed from the group. You may add developers to groups.
Developers added to groups may be given administrator privileges on the group.

Groups may also have one or more applications associated with the group.
Application association allows for granular management of applications and
teams access to application information.

Groups enable you to manage the developers associated with your projects and
the release level of your applications.

And finally Groups allow for a higher contracted rate_limit, and site quota,
over those set for default developer accounts. These settings are based on
your Blackboard license or Business Development contract. If you do not have a
Blackboard product license or do not have a Business Development contract your
groups will all have default developer account settings.

This document explains how to create and manage your groups.

### Group Naming Requirements

This is a very important topic because the name you give the group is the name
that shows up in the Blackboard Learn system that is associated with the
application ID when the Learn Administrator configures the integration. In
general, you want the Group Name to include at minimum one or two items, 1.The
name of the company/vendor that owns the application, and optionally 2. the
name of the application or product. Below is an example for one application
ID:

For developers you could use following name. Notice how we include the company
name, the product name, and who the group belongs to:

- SuperSoftware - Sudoku For Learners - Development Team 1
- SuperSoftware - Sudoku For Learners - Development Team 2

Then your production group name could be the following:

- SuperSoftware - Sudoku For Learners; or
- SuperSoftware, Sudoku For Learners

If your company had a different product, say Multinote, it will have a
different application ID and you will associate it with different groups, say:

- SuperSoftware - Multinote - Development Team 1
- SuperSoftware - Multinote - Development Team 2
- SuperSoftware - Multinote

If your company name indicates your product, and your product name is
trademarked, then you have several choices for a production group name. For
example if your company is Mark's Software and your Trademarked' application
is Multinote then you can have your production group name be one of the
following:

- Mark's Software
- Multinote
- Mark's Software - Multinote

**We ask that you not add other, unnecessary information to a production group name. For example, including text indicating that the group name is associated with Blackboard REST APIs is not necessary, nor is an indication of server type such as '-test', '-stage', or '-production', as given the context, we and the Learn Administrator know that's where and how the group name is being used.** It doesn't matter if you have a SOAP Web Service proxy of the same name as that shows up on a different page.

**We will only assign site and rate limits higher than the defaults for development groups to Production Groups that meet these naming requirements.**

Next, let's take a look at how you create Groups.

### Creating Groups in the Developer Portal

Management of Groups and Applications requires that you have logged into the
Developer Portal. Once logged in you are taken to the Application Management
portion of the Developer Portal. It is here that you may manage your groups.

Note in the below screen capture that Sterling Silver is a member of the
STERLING MOSS group which was created when he created his Developer Portal
Account. We already know that Sterling is the Admin of the group so let's
click My Groups and take a look a the STERLING MOSS group.

If you created your Developer Portal account before we introduced groups that
is not a problem, you will now have a group based on your account information
and you may edit this group name.

![1 - Sterling Moss apps - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-1.png)

When Sterling clicks on the My Groups link he is taken to the Groups
management page (1) where he may view groups in which he is a member (2), view
developers in his groups (3), add developers to groups of which he is an
administrator (4), and create groups and rename groups he is administering
(5).

Groups are created by clicking the Create link next to the Group chooser.

![2 - Sterling Moss groups - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-2.png)

When Stirling clicks Create, a dialog is displayed where he may enter the name
of his group. Clicking the Create button will saves the group.

Groups may be used to manage application releases. For example Sterling may
have a limited-use alpha group with full developer team access, a beta-group
with broader application distribution and a smaller developer team, or a
production group with limited admin access. We will discuss Managing Group
Applications later in this document.

Sterling chooses to add a group. In this case Sterling is creating a group for
his company's production software.

![3 - Sterling Moss add group - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-3.png)

Note that on creating a group you are automatically added to the group with
administrator privileges. This allows you to add developers or otherwise
manage the group and it's associated applications.

Now that Sterling has created a production group he may want to associate one
(or more) of his applications with this group, or add developers from his team
to this new group to assist with administrating the group.

Let's take a look at managing a group's applications...

![4 - Sterling Moss groups after add group - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-4.png)

### Managing Group Applications

As the owner of several applications and several groups you can associate
applications with different developer groups.

Let's log in as Steve Ranger, owner of RangerSoft.

![5 - Steve Ranger login - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-5.png)

When clicking the My Apps link Steve can now see his applications and the
groups with which they are associated.

Steve has his personal group "STEVE RANGER" (1), a development group -
"RangerSoft - dev" (2), and his production group "RangerSoft" (3).

![6 - Steve Ranger apps - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-6.png)

Steve's groups have specific applications associated with them. Steve has his
experimental application - Steve's Experiment - under his personal group. This
application may be deleted by using the Trash can icon.

![7 - Steve Ranger change app group - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-7.png)

Steve also has an application in development - Multinote Plus. This is under
his RangerSoft - dev group. This application also may be deleted by using the
Trash can icon.

Finally Steve has a production application - Multinote. This is under his
production RangerSoft group. This application (extra space was here..) may not
be deleted. This is to protect from accidentally deleting applications which
have been deployed to production environments.

Because Steve has administrative rights he may change the group with which an
application is associated at any time. Changing an application's group from a
production group to a non-production group allows for the deleting of that
application.

Note that deleting an application **will** break any deployments. Also note
that changing an application's group may change the rate_limit for that
application.

## Managing Group Developers

Developers who have been added to groups may see applications that are
associated with a group and may also be designated as administrators of a
group.

Steve has multiple developers. and Steve wants to add a developer to his
production RangerSoft group so he clicks the My Groups link and opens his
Groups management page.

He then clicks the Add Developers icon as indicated by the arrow.

![8 - Steve Ranger groups - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-8.png)

Clicking the Add Developer Icon opens a dialog for entering the email address
of the developer he wants to add to his group.

Note that in order to add developers they must have previously registered for
a developer portal account and you must know the email address with which they
registered.

Steve enters the email address for one of his developers and clicks the Add
Developer button.

![9 - Steve Ranger add dev to group - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-9.png)

Adding a developer to your group allows that developer to see all your
applications. The administrator setting on the developer for a specific group
is what enables that developer to manage the associated application

The default when adding a developer is that they have no admin privileges.

Steve wants Junior to admin the applications associated with the RangerSoft -
dev group, so Steve changes to that group and changes Junior's privileges.

![10 - Steve Ranger change group - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-10.png)

### The Developer View

When Junior Developer logs into the Developer Portal he now sees the two
RangerSoft groups that Steve created.

![11 - Picture1.png](/assets/img/production-groups-11.png)

Junior may admin the application association for the Multinote Plus
application which is associated with the RangerSoft - dev group because Steve
made Junior an administrator on that group. Also note that because Steve did
not make Junior an admin on the the RangerSoft group Junior has no application
admin privileges.

Commit message:

We are now Anthology (#128)
* change Bb text, remove deprecated docs, etc.

* fix moneil references.

* ATD link, others

* More rebranding tweaking...

* fixing student docs pages

* Update ANTHOLOGY-Logo-RGB.png

* rebranding v2 tweaks.

* rebranding tweaks

* rebranding v2 tweaks

* rebranding - added student menu and pages

* moved deprecated to archives and added PDF support.

Moved most deprecated docs to archives, added md2pdf script and generated pdfs, updated selected .md files for pdf generation and downloads.

* final

* Last commit for a Tuesday.

Fixed broken PDF links and removed liquid text from pdf - see md2pdf.sh for notes.

* Fixed liquid PDF download block so it does not render in PDFs.

* Read input for auto overwrites of PDFs.

* Rebranding v1 (#124)

* moved deprecated to archives and added PDF support.

Moved most deprecated docs to archives, added md2pdf script and generated pdfs, updated selected .md files for pdf generation and downloads.

* final

* Last commit for a Tuesday.

Fixed broken PDF links and removed liquid text from pdf - see md2pdf.sh for notes.

* Fixed liquid PDF download block so it does not render in PDFs.

* Read input for auto overwrites of PDFs.

* Fixed logic error behind the default action for auto overwrite prompt.

* Updated the css abit

* Rebranding v1 (#126)

* fix cloud-registry.md

* add cloud registry pdf

* improved md2pdf conversion workflow - does not display unconverted mds in converted PDF results list.

* Update main.css

* fix converted list

* Rebranding v1 (#127)

* fix cloud-registry.md

* add cloud registry pdf

* improved md2pdf conversion workflow - does not display unconverted mds in converted PDF results list.

* Update main.css

* fix converted list

* support md2pdf conversion

* update menu

Co-authored-by: Davey Herrera <davey.herrera@blackboard.com>

rest-apis/learn/admin/production-groups.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Production groups"
id: rest_apis-learn-admin-prod-groups
categories: Learn Rest Admin
author: Scott Hurrey
doctitle: "Developer Portal, Development and Production Groups"
pdf: true
---


# Developer Portal, Development and Production Groups

### What are Groups?

The Blackboard Developer Portal provides the means to manage application
releases and associated developers through the concept of Groups. You can
create groups for individual and team development, as well as **target a
specific group for a production application release (your Production Group)**.
This allows you to manage your applications and the developer teams behind
them, enabling access to application references by team members.

Groups always have at least one member - that unique member has admin rights
and may not be removed from the group. You may add developers to groups.
Developers added to groups may be given administrator privileges on the group.

Groups may also have one or more applications associated with the group.
Application association allows for granular management of applications and
teams access to application information.

Groups enable you to manage the developers associated with your projects and
the release level of your applications.

And finally Groups allow for a higher contracted rate_limit, and site quota,
over those set for default developer accounts. These settings are based on
your Blackboard license or Business Development contract. If you do not have a
Blackboard product license or do not have a Business Development contract your
groups will all have default developer account settings.

This document explains how to create and manage your groups.

### Group Naming Requirements

This is a very important topic because the name you give the group is the name
that shows up in the Learn system that is associated with the
application ID when the Learn Administrator configures the integration. In
general, you want the Group Name to include at minimum one or two items, 1.The
name of the company/vendor that owns the application, and optionally 2. the
name of the application or product. Below is an example for one application
ID:

For developers you could use following name. Notice how we include the company
name, the product name, and who the group belongs to:

- SuperSoftware - Sudoku For Learners - Development Team 1
- SuperSoftware - Sudoku For Learners - Development Team 2

Then your production group name could be the following:

- SuperSoftware - Sudoku For Learners; or
- SuperSoftware, Sudoku For Learners

If your company had a different product, say Multinote, it will have a
different application ID and you will associate it with different groups, say:

- SuperSoftware - Multinote - Development Team 1
- SuperSoftware - Multinote - Development Team 2
- SuperSoftware - Multinote

If your company name indicates your product, and your product name is
trademarked, then you have several choices for a production group name. For
example if your company is Mark's Software and your Trademarked' application
is Multinote then you can have your production group name be one of the
following:

- Mark's Software
- Multinote
- Mark's Software - Multinote

**We ask that you not add other, unnecessary information to a production group name. For example, including text indicating that the group name is associated with Blackboard REST APIs is not necessary, nor is an indication of server type such as '-test', '-stage', or '-production', as given the context, we and the Learn Administrator know that's where and how the group name is being used.** It doesn't matter if you have a SOAP Web Service proxy of the same name as that shows up on a different page.

**We will only assign site and rate limits higher than the defaults for development groups to Production Groups that meet these naming requirements.**

Next, let's take a look at how you create Groups.

### Creating Groups in the Developer Portal

Management of Groups and Applications requires that you have logged into the
Developer Portal. Once logged in you are taken to the Application Management
portion of the Developer Portal. It is here that you may manage your groups.

Note in the below screen capture that Sterling Silver is a member of the
STERLING MOSS group which was created when he created his Developer Portal
Account. We already know that Sterling is the Admin of the group so let's
click My Groups and take a look a the STERLING MOSS group.

If you created your Developer Portal account before we introduced groups that
is not a problem, you will now have a group based on your account information
and you may edit this group name.

![1 - Sterling Moss apps - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-1.png)

When Sterling clicks on the My Groups link he is taken to the Groups
management page (1) where he may view groups in which he is a member (2), view
developers in his groups (3), add developers to groups of which he is an
administrator (4), and create groups and rename groups he is administering
(5).

Groups are created by clicking the Create link next to the Group chooser.

![2 - Sterling Moss groups - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-2.png)

When Stirling clicks Create, a dialog is displayed where he may enter the name
of his group. Clicking the Create button will saves the group.

Groups may be used to manage application releases. For example Sterling may
have a limited-use alpha group with full developer team access, a beta-group
with broader application distribution and a smaller developer team, or a
production group with limited admin access. We will discuss Managing Group
Applications later in this document.

Sterling chooses to add a group. In this case Sterling is creating a group for
his company's production software.

![3 - Sterling Moss add group - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-3.png)

Note that on creating a group you are automatically added to the group with
administrator privileges. This allows you to add developers or otherwise
manage the group and it's associated applications.

Now that Sterling has created a production group he may want to associate one
(or more) of his applications with this group, or add developers from his team
to this new group to assist with administrating the group.

Let's take a look at managing a group's applications...

![4 - Sterling Moss groups after add group - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-4.png)

### Managing Group Applications

As the owner of several applications and several groups you can associate
applications with different developer groups.

Let's log in as Steve Ranger, owner of RangerSoft.

![5 - Steve Ranger login - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-5.png)

When clicking the My Apps link Steve can now see his applications and the
groups with which they are associated.

Steve has his personal group "STEVE RANGER" (1), a development group -
"RangerSoft - dev" (2), and his production group "RangerSoft" (3).

![6 - Steve Ranger apps - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-6.png)

Steve's groups have specific applications associated with them. Steve has his
experimental application - Steve's Experiment - under his personal group. This
application may be deleted by using the Trash can icon.

![7 - Steve Ranger change app group - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-7.png)

Steve also has an application in development - Multinote Plus. This is under
his RangerSoft - dev group. This application also may be deleted by using the
Trash can icon.

Finally Steve has a production application - Multinote. This is under his
production RangerSoft group. This application (extra space was here..) may not
be deleted. This is to protect from accidentally deleting applications which
have been deployed to production environments.

Because Steve has administrative rights he may change the group with which an
application is associated at any time. Changing an application's group from a
production group to a non-production group allows for the deleting of that
application.

Note that deleting an application **will** break any deployments. Also note
that changing an application's group may change the rate_limit for that
application.

## Managing Group Developers

Developers who have been added to groups may see applications that are
associated with a group and may also be designated as administrators of a
group.

Steve has multiple developers. and Steve wants to add a developer to his
production RangerSoft group so he clicks the My Groups link and opens his
Groups management page.

He then clicks the Add Developers icon as indicated by the arrow.

![8 - Steve Ranger groups - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-8.png)

Clicking the Add Developer Icon opens a dialog for entering the email address
of the developer he wants to add to his group.

Note that in order to add developers they must have previously registered for
a developer portal account and you must know the email address with which they
registered.

Steve enters the email address for one of his developers and clicks the Add
Developer button.

![9 - Steve Ranger add dev to group - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-9.png)

Adding a developer to your group allows that developer to see all your
applications. The administrator setting on the developer for a specific group
is what enables that developer to manage the associated application

The default when adding a developer is that they have no admin privileges.

Steve wants Junior to admin the applications associated with the RangerSoft -
dev group, so Steve changes to that group and changes Junior's privileges.

![10 - Steve Ranger change group - cropped.png](/assets/img/production-groups-10.png)

### The Developer View

When Junior Developer logs into the Developer Portal he now sees the two
RangerSoft groups that Steve created.

![11 - Picture1.png](/assets/img/production-groups-11.png)

Junior may admin the application association for the Multinote Plus
application which is associated with the RangerSoft - dev group because Steve
made Junior an administrator on that group. Also note that because Steve did
not make Junior an admin on the the RangerSoft group Junior has no application
admin privileges.
