standards/LTI In Learn - Turn On All The Switches!.md, before:

---
layout: standards
parent: lti
category: getting-started-lti
---
# LTI In Learn - Turn On All The Switches
*Author: Mark Kauffman*  
*Categories: ['LTI']*  
*Tags: ['lti', 'ims learning tools interoperability', 'ims global', 'developer', 'developers', 'standards', 'getting started']*  
<hr />
## Overview
We often hear about this message "The Tool Provider has been disabled by the System Administrator"  The usual cause is that one of the 3 LTI switches is disabled. There are 3 places you need to enable LTI: (1) at the tool level, (2) at the course/organization level, and (3) at the LTI Global Properties level. Screenshots follow.

## All the Switches
(1) Administrator Panel -> Tools & Utilities section -> Tools

![1-LTIConfigAdminTools.png](/images/1-LTIConfigAdminTools.png)

(2) In a Course/Organization, Start at the Left Nav Menu

![2-LTIConfigCourseOrg.png](/images/2-LTIConfigCourseOrg.png)

(3) Administrator Panel -> Integrations section -> LTI Tool Providers -> Manage Global Properties

![3-LTIConfigManageGlobal.png](/images/3-LTIConfigManageGlobal.png)


[Return to top](#overview)

Commit message:

doc the necessity of a role in the course before a launch

standards/LTI In Learn - Turn On All The Switches!.md, after:

---
layout: standards
parent: lti
category: getting-started-lti
---
# LTI In Learn - Turn On All The Switches
*Author: Mark Kauffman*  
*Categories: ['LTI']*  
*Tags: ['lti', 'ims learning tools interoperability', 'ims global', 'developer', 'developers', 'standards', 'getting started']*  
<hr />
## Overview
We often hear about this message "The Tool Provider has been disabled by the System Administrator"  The usual cause is that one of the 3 LTI switches is disabled. There are 3 places you need to enable LTI: (1) at the tool level, (2) at the course/organization level, and (3) at the LTI Global Properties level. Screenshots follow. **LAST, BUT NOT LEAST - Make certain you are enrolled in the course, as an instructor or student, before using the LTI placements you create in a course! Your launch will fail if you don't have a role in the course.**

## All the Switches
(1) Administrator Panel -> Tools & Utilities section -> Tools

![1-LTIConfigAdminTools.png](/images/1-LTIConfigAdminTools.png)

(2) In a Course/Organization, Start at the Left Nav Menu

![2-LTIConfigCourseOrg.png](/images/2-LTIConfigCourseOrg.png)

(3) Administrator Panel -> Integrations section -> LTI Tool Providers -> Manage Global Properties

![3-LTIConfigManageGlobal.png](/images/3-LTIConfigManageGlobal.png)


[Return to top](#overview)
