rest/premium-apis.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Premium APIs"
id: rest_apis-learn-uef-request_premium_apis
categories: REST
author: Hernan Ortiz
---

# Premium APIs

Premium APIs offer several new capabilities for integrations with
Blackboard Learn Ultra experience.

## How to request a Premium API

If you’re a Blackboard client or a partner in Bronze level or above,
please [submit a Behind the Blackboard ticket](https://blackboard.secure.force.com/){: target='\_blank'}
and we’ll get back to you as soon as possible.

If you’re a Blackboard Developer Network Partner (BbDN), a Community
Partner or a third-party developer interested in our Premium APIs,
we offer a variety of partnership levels in the
[Blackboard Partnership Program](https://www.blackboard.com/partnerships/become-a-partner){: target='\_blank'}.
Once you upgrade your partnership level, please [submit a Behind the Blackboard ticket](https://blackboard.secure.force.com/){: target='\_blank'}.

## Our Premium APIs

### Ultra Extension Framework

UEF is a set of Premium APIs that augment the Ultra experience of
Blackboard Learn. We designed a robust set of capabilities such as
telemetry, help provider registration, and UI element rendering to
enable better integrations and richer user experience.
Take a look at [First steps with UEF](https://docs.blackboard.com/learn/uef/getting-started) to get started.

Commit message:

We are now Anthology (#128)
* change Bb text, remove deprecated docs, etc.

* fix moneil references.

* ATD link, others

* More rebranding tweaking...

* fixing student docs pages

* Update ANTHOLOGY-Logo-RGB.png

* rebranding v2 tweaks.

* rebranding tweaks

* rebranding v2 tweaks

* rebranding - added student menu and pages

* moved deprecated to archives and added PDF support.

Moved most deprecated docs to archives, added md2pdf script and generated pdfs, updated selected .md files for pdf generation and downloads.

* final

* Last commit for a Tuesday.

Fixed broken PDF links and removed liquid text from pdf - see md2pdf.sh for notes.

* Fixed liquid PDF download block so it does not render in PDFs.

* Read input for auto overwrites of PDFs.

* Rebranding v1 (#124)

* moved deprecated to archives and added PDF support.

Moved most deprecated docs to archives, added md2pdf script and generated pdfs, updated selected .md files for pdf generation and downloads.

* final

* Last commit for a Tuesday.

Fixed broken PDF links and removed liquid text from pdf - see md2pdf.sh for notes.

* Fixed liquid PDF download block so it does not render in PDFs.

* Read input for auto overwrites of PDFs.

* Fixed logic error behind the default action for auto overwrite prompt.

* Updated the css abit

* Rebranding v1 (#126)

* fix cloud-registry.md

* add cloud registry pdf

* improved md2pdf conversion workflow - does not display unconverted mds in converted PDF results list.

* Update main.css

* fix converted list

* Rebranding v1 (#127)

* fix cloud-registry.md

* add cloud registry pdf

* improved md2pdf conversion workflow - does not display unconverted mds in converted PDF results list.

* Update main.css

* fix converted list

* support md2pdf conversion

* update menu

Co-authored-by: Davey Herrera <davey.herrera@blackboard.com>

rest/premium-apis.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Premium APIs"
id: rest_apis-learn-uef-request_premium_apis
categories: REST
author: Hernan Ortiz
doctitle: "Premium APIs"
pdf: true
---


# Premium APIs
Premium APIs offer several new capabilities for integrations with
Learn Ultra experience.

## How to request a Premium API
If you’re a Blackboard client or a partner in Bronze level or above,
please [submit a Behind the Blackboard ticket](https://blackboard.secure.force.com/){: target='\_blank'}
and we’ll get back to you as soon as possible.

If you’re a Blackboard Developer Network Partner (BbDN), a Community
Partner or a third-party developer interested in our Premium APIs,
we offer a variety of partnership levels in the
[Blackboard Partnership Program](https://www.blackboard.com/partnerships/become-a-partner){: target='\_blank'}.
Once you upgrade your partnership level, please [submit a Behind the Blackboard ticket](https://blackboard.secure.force.com/){: target='\_blank'}.

## Our Premium APIs
### Ultra Extension Framework
UEF is a set of Premium APIs that augment the Ultra experience of
Learn. We designed a robust set of capabilities such as
telemetry, help provider registration, and UI element rendering to
enable better integrations and richer user experience.
Take a look at [First steps with UEF](https://docs.blackboard.com/learn/uef/getting-started) to get started.
